% \iffalse meta-comment
%<*internal>
\iffalse
%</internal>
%<*readme>
----------------------------------------------------------------
phd-utils --- some useful uitlities
E-mail: yannislaz@gmail.com
Released under the LaTeX Project Public License v1.3c or later
See http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt
----------------------------------------------------------------
This file provides a phd for defining a class.
%</readme>
%<*readmemd>
###The `phd` LaTeX2e package

The `phd` latex package and the class with the same name provide
convenient methods to create new styles for books, reports
and articles. It also loads the most commonly used packages 
and resolves conflicts.

This work consists of the file  `phd.dtx`,
and the derived files   `phd.ins`,  `phd.pdf`, and `phd.sty`.

The `phd` bundle is a bunch of 15 packages, that manage all
aspects of document production.

They consist of:

1.0  The [phd-pkgmanager](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-pkgmanager.md). This
     package manages all aspects of loading numerous packages and avoiding conflicts. It currently
     loads over 100 packages, directly or indirectly.
     
2.0  The [phd-fontmanager](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-fontmanager.md). The
     `phd-fontmanager` sets up the fonts to be used for the document and provides an interface to
     all areas where font data is needed.
     
3.0  The [phd-handlers](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-handlers.md). As we use
     extensively automatic key generation via code, this package provides numerous handlers.
     
4.0  The [phd-lowerlevelheadings](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-lowerlevelheadings.md)     

5.0  The [phd-toc](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-toc.md) package.
     Manages all aspects of Table of Contents via a key value interface. 

6.0  The [phd-counters](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-counters.md) 

7.0  The [phd-colorpalette](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-colorpalette.md). This
     package introduces the concept of a `color palette` to `LaTeX` coding. It groups all color
     data into `palettes`. By setting a single set of keys, the document can be updated with new
     color information.

8.0  The [phd-scriptsmanager](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-scriptsmanager.md).
     Handles the settings and provides a key face interface to over scripts for use in typesetting
     texts from ancient to modern.

9.0  The [phd-documentation](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-documentation.md).
     Provides numerous commands and keys for typesetting code. It also provides indexing shortcuts,
     including math symbols etc.
     
10.0 The [phd-epigraphs](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-epigraphs.md).
     This package manages the typesetting of epigraphs.
     
11.0 The [phd-frontmatter](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-epigraphs.md)
     package for the typesetting of frontmatter such as coverpages, copyright pages and title
     pages.
     
12.0 The [phd-lorems](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-lorems.md)    
     package. Provides some additional commands for filler text.

13.0 The [phd-quote](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-quote.md)    
     package. Provides some additional commands for filler text.
     
14.0 The [phd-lists](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-lists.md)    
     package. Provides some additional commands and a key value interface for lists.  
     
15.0 The [phd-logos](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-logos.md)    
     package. Supplementary commands for logos.         
      
###Installation

run
        `phd-lua phd.dtx` on windows
        
If you have any difficulties with the package come and join us at
http://tex.stackexchange.com and post a new question or
add a comment at http://tex.stackexchange.com/a/45023/963.
or send me a message at  yannislaz at gmail.com

### Documentation

The package was written using the `doc` and `docscript` packages,
so that it is self documented in a literary programming style. 
The .pdf is a fat document, providing over fifty book styles (the
equivalent of classes) plus there is a lot of write-up on the inner
workings of TeX and LaTeX2e. However, you don't need to know much
to use it.

      \usepackage{phd}
      \input{style13}

All choices, are made via an extended key-value interface. 
Although not a compliment, it resembles CSS and the keys are a bit verbose but
attributes are easy to change and have a consistent and easy to remember interface.

To set or add a key we only use one command:

      \cxset{chapter name font-size: Huge,
             chapter number font-size: HUGE} 

### Future Development

This is still an experimental version, but I will retain the
interface in future releases. There is a large amount of
work still to be carried out to improve the template styles
provided, to test it more thoroughly and to add a number of
improvements in the special designs. At present I estimate
that I have completed about 70% of the work that needs
to be done.

__The package as it stands is not production stable.__ 


%</readmemd>
%
%<*TODO>
1. On final round add pkg options. This was left as last in order not to solve problems by adding
    options. Too many options are not a good User Interface.
2.  Finish symbol management, both text and math. Math already 60% incorporated.
3.  Better integration of indexing commands.   
4.  Revisit layout manager for Chapters. Broke again in tests.
5.  Docs. Add all references.
6.  Incorporate phd class for more flexibility.
7. Improve package manager.
8. Group script loading for better font management.
9. General font management to relook it again.
10. Add all style sections (about 100 already prepared). Once they
     are all working issue beta version.
%</TODO>
%<*internal>
\fi
\def\nameofplainTeX{plain}
\ifx\fmtname\nameofplainTeX\else
  \expandafter\begingroup
\fi
%</internal>
%<*install>
\input l3docstrip.tex
\keepsilent
\askforoverwritefalse
\preamble
----------------------------------------------------------------
phd --- A package to beautify documents.
E-mail: yannislaz@gmail.com
Released under the LaTeX Project Public License v1.3c or later
See http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt
----------------------------------------------------------------
\endpreamble
%\BaseDirectory{C:/users/admin/my documents/github/phd}
%\usedir{MWE}
\generate{\file{\jobname.sty}{
  \from{\jobname.dtx}{package}
}}
%</install>
%<install>\endbatchfile
%<*internal>
%\usedir{tex/latex/phd}
\generate{
  \file{\jobname.ins}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{install}}
}
\nopreamble\nopostamble

\generate{
	\file{README.txt}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{readme}}
  }

\generate{
  \file{README.md}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{readmemd}}
}
\generate{
  \file{TODO.tex}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{TODO}}
}

\ifx\fmtname\nameofplainTeX
  \expandafter\endbatchfile
\else
  \expandafter\endgroup
\fi
 
\immediate\write18{makeindex -s gglo.ist -g phd.gls phd.glo}  %needs checking from trivfloat
\immediate\write18{makeindex -s gind.ist -g phd.ind phd.idx} %needs checking from Joseph’s trivfloat
%</internal>
%<*driver>
\NeedsTeXFormat{LaTeX2e}[2017/04/15]%
\documentclass[doctype=book,oneside,10pt,a4paper,colorize=true]{phddoc}
\usepackage{phdfilecontents}
\def\partname{Part}
\let\HUGE\huge
\usepackage[bottom=2cm]{geometry}
\savegeometry{std}
%\usepackage[microtype=on]{phd}
%\usepackage{phd-pkgmanager}
%\usepackage{phd-fontmanager}
\usepackage{phd-runningheads}
\usepackage{phd-lowersections}
\usepackage{phd-documentation}
\usepackage{phd-toc}
\sethyperref
\usepackage{makeidx}
\makeindex
\cxset{
%part format=stewart,
%       chapter afterindent=on,
       subsection afterindent=off,
%       part afterindent=on,
%       section format=hang,
%       chapter format=block,
%       chapter opening=left
}
       
\begin{document}
\DEBUGOFF

\frontmatter
\tableofcontents
%\listoffigures
%\listoftables
\mainmatter
\pagestyle{headings-sugar-hearts}
\parindent1em
\input{./l3sections/latex3-basic}
\DocInput{\jobname.dtx}
%\bibliography{phd} worked
%\printindex worked
 \end{document}
 %
% \input{./sections/OTR}
% 
%</driver>
% \fi
% 
%  \CheckSum{0}
%  \CharacterTable
%  {Upper-case    \A\B\C\D\E\F\G\H\I\J\K\L\M\N\O\P\Q\R\S\T\U\V\W\X\Y\Z
%   Lower-case    \a\b\c\d\e\f\g\h\i\j\k\l\m\n\o\p\q\r\s\t\u\v\w\x\y\z
%   Digits        \0\1\2\3\4\5\6\7\8\9
%   Exclamation   \!     Double quote  \"     Hash (number) \#
%   Dollar        \$     Percent       \%     Ampersand     \&
%   Acute accent  \'     Left paren    \(     Right paren   \)
%   Asterisk      \*     Plus          \+     Comma         \,
%   Minus         \-     Point         \.     Solidus       \/
%   Colon         \:     Semicolon     \;     Less than     \<
%   Equals        \=     Greater than  \>     Question mark \?
%   Commercial at \@     Left bracket  \[     Backslash     \\
%   Right bracket \]     Circumflex    \^     Underscore    \_
%   Grave accent  \`     Left brace    \{     Vertical bar  \|
%   Right brace   \}     Tilde         \~}
%
%
%
% \changes{1.0}{2018/01/26}{Converted to DTX file}
%
% \DoNotIndex{\newcommand,\newenvironment}
% \GetFileInfo{phd.dtx}
% 
%  \def\fileversion{v1.0}          
%  \def\filedate{2012/03/06}
% \title{The \textsf{phd} package.
% \thanks{This
%        file (\texttt{phd-utils.dtx}) has version number \fileversion, last revised
%        \filedate.}
% }
% \author{Dr. Yiannis Lazarides \\ \url{yannislaz@gmail.com}}
% \date{\filedate}
%
%
% 
% ^^A\maketitle
% 
% ^^A\frontmatter
%  ^^A\coverpage{./images/hine02.jpg}{Book Design }{Camel Press}
%  \newpage
% ^^A\secondpage
% \pagestyle{empty}
%
% \pagestyle{headings}
% \raggedbottom
% ^^A \StopEventually{}
%  \OnlyDescription
%
%  ^^A\StopEventually{\printindex}
%<*package>
% \CodelineNumbered
% \pagestyle{headings}
% 
% \chapter{Implementation}
%
% The implementation is divided into different parts. 
% These parts are sometimes placed smaller packages 
% to make their maintenance easier and also to enable,
% partial deployment.
% 	
% \begin{description}
%
%  \item[The Package Manager] This section is responsible 
%       for pre-loading  packages, resolving conflicts and 
%       providing all interfacing commands (see \docFile{phd-pkgmanager}).
%
%
%  \item[Scripts Manager] Manages the loading of scripts for the worlds 
%  laguages and scripts.
%
%  \item[Keys] Key values are managed through \pgfname. The package
%       \pkg{phd-handlers} provides some useful handlers, mostly used by
%       internally.
%
%  \item[Epigraphs] A small supplementary package for epigraphs.
%
%  \item[MWE] The package generates a large number
%		of Minimum Working Examples that we use for testing. 
%		Most of them can also used as examples for training 
%		or self-study.
%
%  \item[Counters] The package counters, is an extension to the current
%    \latexe package offering more functionality and close integration
%    with the rest of the |phd| packages.
%
% \end{description}
%
% \section{Preliminaries}
%
%   Standard file identification. We first announce the package 
%	 and require that it be used with \LaTeX2e. RE
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\NeedsTeXFormat{LaTeX2e}[2017/04/15]%
\ProvidesPackage{phd-utils}[2018/1/13 v1.0 various useful utilities (YL)]%
\RequirePackage{expl3,xparse}
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \section{spacing}
% {hspace} This is a \textit{hairspace}, here defined 
% as 1pt.
% {hquad} This is a half squad space
%
% \begin{docCommand}{hairspace}{}
%  Provides a space of 1pt
% \end{docCommand}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\ProvideDocumentCommand{\hairsp}{}{\hspace{1pt}}
%    \end{macrocode}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\ProvideDocumentCommand{\hquad}{}{\hskip0.5em\relax}% half quad space
% Sometimes, we need a little more horizontal spacing, too (used for symbols).
\ProvideDocumentCommand{\qqquad}{}{\qquad\quad}
\ProvideDocumentCommand{\ie}{}{\textit{i.\hairsp{}e}\xspace} %removed\@
\ProvideDocumentCommand{\eg}{}{\textit{e.\hairsp{}g.}\xspace}

\ProvideDocumentCommand{\BC}{ m }{\textsc{#1~bc}} %European Union Style Guide FIX

\ProvideDocumentCommand{\AD}{ m }{\textsc{ad~#1}} %European Union Style Guide FIX
\ProvideDocumentCommand{\bce}{ m }{\textsc{bce~#1}}
%    \end{macrocode}
% 
%
% \subsection{Standard phantom widths}
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\newcommand\Zi{\phantom{0}} %Z conflicts with symbols 
\newcommand\ZZ{\phantom{00}}
\newcommand\ZZZ{\phantom{000}}
\newcommand\ZZZZ{\phantom{0000}}
\providecommand\newthought[1]{%
   \addvspace{1.0\baselineskip plus 0.5ex minus 0.2ex}%
   \noindent\textsc{#1}%
}
  \let\equation\gather             %% See tabu and hyperref docs
  \let\endequation\endgather
%    \end{macrocode}
% Support for quick setting of variables
%    \begin{macrocode}
\def\phddefvar#1#2{%
  \expandafter\def\csname PHDvar@#1\endcsname{#2}%
}
\def\phdifvar#1{%
  \expandafter\ifx\csname PHDvar@#1\endcsname\relax
    \expandafter\@secondoftwo
  \else
    \expandafter\@firstoftwo
  \fi
}
\def\phdusevar#1{%
  \phdifvar{#1}{%
    \csname PHDvar@#1\endcsname
  }{%
    variable #1\undefined
  }%
}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Rules}
% We need to define a number of rules to use in typesetting styles.
%	We will use later on different styles of rules to decorate chapter headings.
%	We define a few here to simplify code later on.
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\DeclareRobustCommand\thickrule{%
    \leavevmode \leaders \hrule height 2pt \hfill \kern \z@}
\DeclareRobustCommand\thinrule{\vrule width\textwidth height0.4pt depth0pt\relax}%
%
\DeclareRobustCommand\mediumrule{\rule{\textwidth}{0.8pt}}
%    Adjusted to get toc parameters in
\DeclareRobustCommand\Rule{{\color{\tocchapternumberfill@cx}\rule[-4.1pt]{13cm}{0.4pt}}}
\DeclareRobustCommand\bottomline{\medskip
   \noindent\rule{\linewidth}{0.4pt}\medskip}
\DeclareRobustCommand\topline{\par\medskip
   \noindent\rule{\linewidth}{0.4pt}\medskip} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% 
% 
% 
%
%  Some chapter and sectioning heads include rules, we define them here for convenience.
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{chapter rule color/.store in={\chapter@rule@color}}%
\cxset{chapter rule color=spot!30}
\DeclareRobustCommand\tikzrule{%
  \tikz [color=\chapter@rule@color, very thick, inner sep=0pt, outer sep=0pt]%
        \draw(0,0)--(\the\linewidth,0);
}%
%  The trim left is required to align the rule exactly
%    \begin{macrocode}           
%#1  options #2 width  #3 height           
\newcommand\drawrule[3][]{%
    \offinterlineskip
          \tikz [ name=s,trim left,
                   anchor=base,
                   draw=black, 
                 % double distance=.2pt,
                  line width=#3,
                  %very thick,
                  inner sep=0pt, 
                  outer sep=0pt,#1]   \draw(0,0)--(#2,0);
}
 \def\drawdoublerule#1#2{%
    \drawrule{#1}{#2}%
    \vskip2.5pt
    \drawrule{#1}{#2}%
 }
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \section{Assertions}
%  These are used for testing modules, as well as for the self-running examples in tutorials.
%    \begin{macrocode}
%<@@=assert>
%    \end{macrocode}
% \begin{macro}{\TRUE,\FALSE,\PASS,\FAIL,\PASSED}
% Typesets the results of an assertion. 
%    \begin{macrocode}
\ExplSyntaxOn
\cs_set:Npn \l_@@_typeset_true: 
  {
    \meta{true code}
  }
\cs_set_nopar:Npn \TRUE { \l_@@_typeset_true: }
\cs_set_nopar:Npn \FALSE { \meta{false code} }
\cs_set_nopar:Npn \PASS { \tex_par:D \leavevmode {\sffamily\bfseries\textcolor{green!50!blue}{PASS}}\ ~}
\cs_set_nopar:Npn \FAIL { \tex_par:D \leavevmode {\sffamily\bfseries\textcolor{red!70!black}{FAIL}}\ ~}
%
\ProvideDocumentCommand{\PASSED}{ }{\textcolor{green!50!blue}{PASS}}

\cs_set:Npn \assert_eq_meaning:NN #1 #2 
  {
   \if_meaning:w #1#2 
     \PASS
     \else:
     \FAIL
   \fi:
  }

  
\cs_set:Npn \assert_not_eq_meaning:NN #1 #2 
  {
   \if_meaning:w #1#2 
     \FAIL
     \else:
     \PASS
   \fi:
  }  
\ExplSyntaxOff 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \end{macro}
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
%<@@=>
%    \end{macrocode}
%
%
% \ExplSyntaxOn
% \assert_eq_meaning:NN \macro\macro
% \assert_not_eq_meaning:NN \macro\macro
% \ExplSyntaxOff
%\iffalse
%</package>
%\fi
%
%
% \printindex
% \Finale
\endinput




