% \iffalse meta-comment
%<*internal>
\iffalse
%</internal>
%<*readme>
----------------------------------------------------------------
phd-utils --- some useful uitlities
E-mail: yannislaz@gmail.com
Released under the LaTeX Project Public License v1.3c or later
See http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt
----------------------------------------------------------------
This file provides package phd-i18n for handling i18n.
%</readme>
%<*readmemd>
###The `phd` LaTeX2e package

The `phd` latex package and the class with the same name provide
convenient methods to create new styles for books, reports
and articles. It also loads the most commonly used packages 
and resolves conflicts.

This work consists of the file  `phd.dtx`,
and the derived files   `phd.ins`,  `phd.pdf`, and `phd.sty`.

The `phd` bundle is a bunch of 15 packages, that manage all
aspects of document production.

They consist of:

1.0  The [phd-pkgmanager](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-pkgmanager.md). This
     package manages all aspects of loading numerous packages and avoiding conflicts. It currently
     loads over 100 packages, directly or indirectly.
     
2.0  The [phd-fontmanager](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-fontmanager.md). The
     `phd-fontmanager` sets up the fonts to be used for the document and provides an interface to
     all areas where font data is needed.
     
3.0  The [phd-handlers](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-handlers.md). As we use
     extensively automatic key generation via code, this package provides numerous handlers.
     
4.0  The [phd-lowerlevelheadings](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-lowerlevelheadings.md)     

5.0  The [phd-toc](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-toc.md) package.
     Manages all aspects of Table of Contents via a key value interface. 

6.0  The [phd-counters](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-counters.md) 

7.0  The [phd-colorpalette](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-colorpalette.md). This
     package introduces the concept of a `color palette` to `LaTeX` coding. It groups all color
     data into `palettes`. By setting a single set of keys, the document can be updated with new
     color information.

8.0  The [phd-scriptsmanager](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-scriptsmanager.md).
     Handles the settings and provides a key face interface to over scripts for use in typesetting
     texts from ancient to modern.

9.0  The [phd-documentation](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-documentation.md).
     Provides numerous commands and keys for typesetting code. It also provides indexing shortcuts,
     including math symbols etc.
     
10.0 The [phd-epigraphs](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-epigraphs.md).
     This package manages the typesetting of epigraphs.
     
11.0 The [phd-frontmatter](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-epigraphs.md)
     package for the typesetting of frontmatter such as coverpages, copyright pages and title
     pages.
     
12.0 The [phd-lorems](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-lorems.md)    
     package. Provides some additional commands for filler text.

13.0 The [phd-quote](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-quote.md)    
     package. Provides some additional commands for filler text.
     
14.0 The [phd-lists](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-lists.md)    
     package. Provides some additional commands and a key value interface for lists.  
     
15.0 The [phd-logos](https://github.com/yannisl/phd/blob/master/docs/phd-logos.md)    
     package. Supplementary commands for logos.         
      
###Installation

run
        `phd-lua phd-i18n.dtx` on windows
        
If you have any difficulties with the package come and join us at
http://tex.stackexchange.com and post a new question or
add a comment at http://tex.stackexchange.com/a/45023/963.
or send me a message at  yannislaz at gmail.com

### Documentation

The package was written using the `doc` and `docscript` packages,
so that it is self documented in a literary programming style. 
The .pdf is a fat document, providing over fifty book styles (the
equivalent of classes) plus there is a lot of write-up on the inner
workings of TeX and LaTeX2e. However, you don't need to know much
to use it.

      \usepackage{phd-i18n}
      \input{style13}

All choices, are made via an extended key-value interface. 
Although not a compliment, it resembles CSS and the keys are a bit verbose but
attributes are easy to change and have a consistent and easy to remember interface.

To set or add a key we only use one command:

      \cxset{chapter name font-size: Huge,
             chapter number font-size: HUGE} 

### Future Development

This is still an experimental version, but I will retain the
interface in future releases. There is a large amount of
work still to be carried out to improve the template styles
provided, to test it more thoroughly and to add a number of
improvements in the special designs. At present I estimate
that I have completed about 70% of the work that needs
to be done.

__The package as it stands is not production stable.__ 


%</readmemd>
%
%<*TODO>
1. On final round add pkg options. This was left as last in order not to solve problems by adding
    options. Too many options are not a good User Interface.
2.  Finish symbol management, both text and math. Math already 60% incorporated.
3.  Better integration of indexing commands.   
4.  Revisit layout manager for Chapters. Broke again in tests.
5.  Docs. Add all references.
6.  Incorporate phd class for more flexibility.
7. Improve package manager.
8. Group script loading for better font management.
9. General font management to relook it again.
10. Add all style sections (about 100 already prepared). Once they
     are all working issue beta version.
%</TODO>
%<*internal>
\fi
\def\nameofplainTeX{plain}
\ifx\fmtname\nameofplainTeX\else
  \expandafter\begingroup
\fi
%</internal>
%<*install>
\input docstrip.tex
\keepsilent
\askforoverwritefalse
\preamble
----------------------------------------------------------------
phd-i18n --- A package to beautify documents.
E-mail: yannislaz@gmail.com
Released under the LaTeX Project Public License v1.3c or later
See http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt
----------------------------------------------------------------
\endpreamble
%\BaseDirectory{C:/users/admin/my documents/github/phd}
%\usedir{MWE}
\generate{\file{\jobname.sty}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{package}}}
%</install>
%<install>\endbatchfile
%<*internal>
%\usedir{tex/latex/phd}
\generate{
  \file{\jobname.ins}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{install}}
}
\nopreamble\nopostamble

\generate{
	\file{README.txt}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{readme}}
  }

\generate{
  \file{README.md}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{readmemd}}
}
\generate{
  \file{TODO.tex}{\from{\jobname.dtx}{TODO}}
}

\ifx\fmtname\nameofplainTeX
  \expandafter\endbatchfile
\else
  \expandafter\endgroup
\fi
 
\immediate\write18{makeindex -s gglo.ist -g phd.gls phd.glo}  %needs checking from trivfloat
\immediate\write18{makeindex -s gind.ist -g phd.ind phd.idx} %needs checking from Joseph’s trivfloat
%</internal>
%<*driver>
\NeedsTeXFormat{LaTeX2e}[2017/04/15]%
\RequirePackage[2017/04/15]{latexrelease}
\documentclass[book,twoside,10pt,a4paper]{phddoc}
\usepackage{phdfilecontents}
\def\partname{Part}
\let\HUGE\huge
\usepackage[bottom=2cm]{geometry}
\savegeometry{std}
\usepackage[microtype=on]{phd}
\usepackage{phd-pkgmanager}
\usepackage{phd-scriptsmanager}
\usepackage{phd-fontmanager}
\usepackage{phd-runningheads}
\usepackage{phd-lowersections}
\usepackage{phd-documentation}
\usepackage{phd-toc}
\usepackage{phd-lists}
\usepackage{phd-quote}
\usepackage{phd-i18n}
\sethyperref
\usepackage{makeidx}
\makeindex
\cxset{part format=stewart,
       chapter afterindent=on,
       subsection afterindent=off,
       part afterindent=on,
       section format=hang,
       chapter format=block,
       chapter opening=left,
       chapter label background-color=white,
       chapter number background-color=white,
       chapter title font-family = upshape}
%\newfontfamily\symbola{Symbola.ttf} 
\addbibresource{phd1.bib}
\usepackage{numprint}
\setmonofont[Scale=.88,FakeStretch=.95]{Apl385} %was Noto Mono
\definecolor{messages}{rgb}{.66,.13,.27}
\makeatletter
\def\@begintheorem#1#2{%
  \list{}{}%
  \global\advance\@listdepth\m@ne
  \item[{\sffamily\bfseries\color{messages}\hspace*{1.3em}%
        \MakeUppercase{#1}}]}%
\makeatother
\newtheorem{warning}{Warning}
\newtheorem{note}{Note}
\newtheorem{examples}{Examples}
\newtheorem{troubleshooting}{Troubleshooting}
\let\aegean\panunicode
\begin{document}
\cxset{locale finnish}
\DEBUGOFF
\let\luacmd\docAuxCommand
\frontmatter
\tableofcontents
%\listoffigures
%\listoftables
\mainmatter
\pagestyle{headings-sugar-hearts}
\parindent1em
%\input{./languages/east-asian-scripts}
%\input{./languages/hangul}

%\input{./languages/phags-pa}

%\input{./sections/unicode}
%\input{./sections/grouping}
%\input{./l3sections/l3xparse}
%\input{./sections/lowerlevelheadings}
\input{./sections/languages}
%\input{./sections/calendars}
\input{./sections/i18n}
%\input{./sections/text-direction}
%\input{./languages/european-alphabetic}
%\input{./languages/mongolian}
\cxset{chapter title font-shape=upshape,
          chapter format=hang}
\DocInput{\jobname.dtx}
%\bibliography{phd} worked
%\printindex worked
 \end{document}
 %
% \input{./sections/OTR}
% 
%</driver>
% \fi
% 
%  \CheckSum{0}
%  \CharacterTable
%  {Upper-case    \A\B\C\D\E\F\G\H\I\J\K\L\M\N\O\P\Q\R\S\T\U\V\W\X\Y\Z
%   Lower-case    \a\b\c\d\e\f\g\h\i\j\k\l\m\n\o\p\q\r\s\t\u\v\w\x\y\z
%   Digits        \0\1\2\3\4\5\6\7\8\9
%   Exclamation   \!     Double quote  \"     Hash (number) \#
%   Dollar        \$     Percent       \%     Ampersand     \&
%   Acute accent  \'     Left paren    \(     Right paren   \)
%   Asterisk      \*     Plus          \+     Comma         \,
%   Minus         \-     Point         \.     Solidus       \/
%   Colon         \:     Semicolon     \;     Less than     \<
%   Equals        \=     Greater than  \>     Question mark \?
%   Commercial at \@     Left bracket  \[     Backslash     \\
%   Right bracket \]     Circumflex    \^     Underscore    \_
%   Grave accent  \`     Left brace    \{     Vertical bar  \|
%   Right brace   \}     Tilde         \~}
%
%
%
% \changes{1.0}{2018/01/26}{Converted to DTX file}
%
% \DoNotIndex{\newcommand,\newenvironment}
% \GetFileInfo{phd.dtx}
% 
%  \def\fileversion{v1.0}          
%  \def\filedate{2012/03/06}
% \title{The \textsf{phd} package.
% \thanks{This
%        file (\texttt{phd-utils.dtx}) has version number \fileversion, last revised
%        \filedate.}
% }
% \author{Dr. Yiannis Lazarides \\ \url{yannislaz@gmail.com}}
% \date{\filedate}
% 
% ^^A\maketitle
% 
% ^^A\frontmatter
%  ^^A\coverpage{./images/hine02.jpg}{Book Design }{Camel Press}
% ^^A\secondpage
% \pagestyle{empty}
%  \begin{abstract}
%   This is the Ukrainian language module for the {datetime2}
%   package. If you want to use the settings in this module you must
%   install it in addition to installing \pkg{datetime2}. If you use
%   {babel} or {polyglossia}, you will need this module to
%   prevent them from redefining \cs{today}. The {datetime2}
%   {useregional} setting must be set to "text" or "numeric"
%   for the language styles to be set.
%   Alternatively, you can set the style in the document using
%   \cs{DTMsetstyle}, but this may be changed by \cs{dateukrainian}
%   depending on the value of the {useregional} setting.
% \end{abstract}
% 
% \chapter{The phd-i18n Package}
% One of the primary aims of the package was to simplify the user interface. At the 
% author level, if one has the appropriate stylesheet, nothing needs to be done.
%
% \section{Usage}
%
% To set the main language of the document use:
%  \begin{sverbatim}
%    \cxset{locale german}
%  \end{sverbatim}
%
% This is best done early in the preamble.
%
% To use any secondary language in the text, there is no need with LuaLaTeX to 
% do anything in the preamble. Just use the appropriate |\text| command.
%   \begin{quote}
%     |\textgerman{your text here}|
%   \end{quote}
%
% For longer texts you can use the environment type commands:
%   \begin{quote}
%     |\begin{ngerman}|\\
%     |\end{ngerman}|
%   \end{quote}
%
% All locale names can be inputted in multiple ways: a) Using thelowercase name of the language as found
% in polyglossia or Babel. Using a title case of the language name i.e., |Greek| or |greek|. You can also use 
% the ISO two code or BCF47 codes for greek it would be |el|. If there are dialects you can use |UKenglish|, as in Babel. Remember you only input the main language. If you do not and the package is included it will default
% to |UKenglish|. 
%
% ^^A \StopEventually{}
%  \OnlyDescription
%
%  ^^A\StopEventually{\printindex}
% \vfill
%<*package>
% \CodelineNumbered
% \pagestyle{headings}
% \def\chaptername{\appendixname}
% \appendix
% \chapter{Implementation}
%
% \section{Specification}
%
% \begin{enumerate}
%  \item  Provide translation strings for all languages listed in
%     the Babel and polyglossia packages and extend this to all the unicode languages.
%  \item  Handle date time.
%  \item Provide useful macros.
%  \item Set quotation marks for the language.
%  \item Provide lua code where appropriate.
%  \item Handle specific numerals, for languages that have their own
%        numerals.
%  \item Handle text directionality without having to load the bidi package.
%  \item Handle Asian languages.
%  \item Rationalize methodology and algorithms as far as possible.
%  \item Enable traditional typesetting rules for the language. I am not too sure if this
%        belongs here, as at least for sectioning commands this is provided by the sectioning
%        keys, however it makes no harm to re-intoduce it here.
%        \begin{enumerate}
%          \item Different enumerate environments (e.g. for French).
%          \item Indentation of paragraphs after sections (e.g. French, basque, Ukrainian).
%          \item French spacing after punctuation.
%          \item Spacing before colons.
%        \end{enumerate}
%  \item No active quotes will be provided by default, as we expect the author to enter
%        commands using unicode. However these will be provided as options and be compatible
%        with Babel.
%  \item Version 1.0 should work with \lualatex only. Higher versions will be
%        adapted to work with \latexe and \xetex, as far as this is feasible..
%  \item Provide a Go or Lua pre-processor utility to reduce the user mark-up for
%        quotations and other similar cases such as spacing before and after \cs{ldots}.
% \end{enumerate}
%
% \section{Data}
%
% \begin{enumerate}
% \item The CLDR data currently at version 33.1 will be used as the data source for 
%       translations available in the CLDR specification. A Go program will be developed
%       to download the data and transform it to \latex macros.
% \item The CLDR does not provide translations for sectioning and other common strings currently
%       required. These will be manually entered.
% \item Number formatting will use the CLDR data.
% \item Date formatting will use both the CLDR data as well as current conventional data formatting
%       as used in polyglossia and babel.
% \end{enumerate}
% \section{Preliminaries}
%
%   Standard file identification. We first announce the package 
%	 and require that it be used with \LaTeX2e.
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\NeedsTeXFormat{LaTeX2e}[2017/04/15]%
\ProvidesPackage{phd-i18n}[2018/1/13 v1.0 i18N utilities (YL)]%
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Keys}
% The keys are defined using the \pgfname keys package. I diverted from the normal
% pattern used in other \pkg{phd} packages, using a higher number of 
% paths than normal. I did this, as it can give more flexibility to user
% extensions and also to have almost a one to one relationship with the nesting
% found in CLDR language files.
%
% We first define a generic command to generate keys for a language tag.
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\ExplSyntaxOn
\def\setcaptions#1{
\cxset
 {
  locale/#1/captions/refname/.code                             = 
    \cs_set:cpn {refname}{##1}
    \cs_set:cpn {greekrefname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/abstractname/.code                        = 
    \def\abstractname{##1},
  locale/#1/captions/bibname/.code                             = 
    \def\bibname{##1},
  locale/#1/captions/prefacename/.code                         = 
    \def\prefacename{##1},
  locale/#1/captions/chaptername/.code                         = 
    \def\chaptername{\panunicode ##1},
  locale/#1/captions/appendixname/.code   = \cs_set:cpn {appendixname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/contentsname/.code   = \cs_set:cpn {contentsname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/listfigurename/.code = \cs_set:cpn {listfigurename} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/listtablename/.code  = \cs_set:cpn {listtablename} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/indexname/.code      = \cs_set:cpn {indexname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/figurename/.code     = \cs_set:cpn {figurename} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/tablename/.code      = \cs_set:cpn {tablename} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/partname/.code       = \cs_set:cpn {partname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/pagename/.code       = \cs_set:cpn {pagename} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/seename/.code        = \cs_set:cpn {seename} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/alsoname/.code       = \cs_set:cpn {alsoname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/enclname/.code       = \cs_set:cpn {enclname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/ccname/.code         = \cs_set:cpn {ccname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/headtoname/.code     = \cs_set:cpn {headtoname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/proofname/.code      = \cs_set:cpn {proofname} {##1},
  locale/#1/captions/glossaryname/.code   = \cs_set:cpn {glossaryname} {##1},
%    \end{macrocode}
% For dates we have a slightly different approach than Babel and Polyglossia,
% we just redefine \cs{today}. So far I don't see the need to define \cs{date}\meta{language}.
% If the language is set as main language it will work ok and for others it will work
% in a group. It will save +- 100 tokens. We can always add it, afterwards just for documentation
% if necessary.
%    \begin{macrocode}
  locale/#1/date/.code  = \cs_set:cpn {today} {##1}
  \cs_set:cpn {date#1}{##1},
%    \end{macrocode}
% \subsection{Numbers}
%  For numbers we define one to one keys to match the numbers.json of the CLDR specification
%  for the language.
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
  locale/#1/numbers/defaultnumberingsystem/.code         = 
    \def\defaultnumberingsystem{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/othernumberingsystems/.code          = 
    \def\othernumberingsystems{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/minimumgroupdigits/.code             = 
    \def\minimumgroupdigits{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/decimal/.code                = 
    \def\symbolsdecimal{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/group/.code                  = 
    \def\symbolsgroup{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/list/.code                   = 
    \def\symbolslist{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/percentsign/.code            = 
    \def\symbolspermille{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/plussign/.code               = 
    \def\symbolsplussign{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/minussign/.code              = 
    \def\symbolsminussign{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/exponential/.code            = 
    \def\symbolsexponential{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/superscriptingexponent/.code = 
    \def\symbolssuperscriptingexponent{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/permille/.code               = 
    \def\symbolsnan{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/infinity/.code               = 
    \def\symbolsinfinity{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/nan/.code                    = 
    \def\symbolsnan{##1},
  locale/#1/numbers/symbols/timeseparator/.code          = 
    \def\symbolstimeseparator{##1},
% 
 }
 }
 
%    \end{macrocode} 
%    \begin{macrocode}
\setcaptions{asturian}
\setcaptions{amharic}
\setcaptions{greek} 
\setcaptions{german}
\setcaptions{french}
\setcaptions{italian}
\setcaptions{albanian}
\setcaptions{malayalam}
\setcaptions{basque}
\setcaptions{brazil}
\setcaptions{breton}
\setcaptions{bulgarian}
\setcaptions{catalan}
\setcaptions{croatian}
\setcaptions{czech}
\setcaptions{danish}
\setcaptions{dutch} %TODO
\setcaptions{estonian}
\setcaptions{finnish}
\setcaptions{friulan}
\setcaptions{galician}
\setcaptions{icelandic}
\setcaptions{irish}
\setcaptions{latin}
\setcaptions{latvian}
\setcaptions{lithuanian}
\setcaptions{lsorbian}
\setcaptions{magyar}
\setcaptions{marathi}
\setcaptions{nko}
\setcaptions{norsk}
\setcaptions{occitan}
\setcaptions{piedmontese}
\setcaptions{polish}
\setcaptions{portuges}
\setcaptions{romanian}
\setcaptions{romansh}
\setcaptions{samin}
\setcaptions{serbian}
\setcaptions{serbian~cyrillic}
\setcaptions{slovak}
\setcaptions{slovenian}
\setcaptions{swedish}
\setcaptions{tamil}
\setcaptions{telugu}
\setcaptions{turkish}
\setcaptions{turkmen}
\setcaptions{ukrainian}
\setcaptions{usorbian}
\setcaptions{hangul}
\setcaptions{welsh}
\setcaptions{russian}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Functions generated via scripts}
% A number of \latex3 functions are generated automatically via a Go program. The Go script
% obtains data for a particular language tag via the CLDR database and transforms the data into
% suitable TeX commands. As TeX commands are stored in memory this is faster for execution.
%
% \begin{docCommand}{l_phd_months_wide_}{language\meta{month}}
%  Used to print the wide format month for a \meta{language}. 
% \end{docCommand}
%
% \begin{docCommand}{l_phd_months_abbreviated_}{language\meta{month}}
%  Used to print the wide format month for a \meta{language}. 
% \end{docCommand}
%
% \begin{docCommand}{l_phd_months_narrow_} {language\meta{month}}
%  Used to print the wide format month for a \meta{language}. 
% \end{docCommand}

% \section{Asturian}
%Astur-Leonese is the historical language of Asturias, portions of the Spanish provinces of León and Zamora and the area surrounding Miranda do Douro in northeastern Portugal.[8] Like the other Romance languages of the Iberian peninsula, it evolved from Vulgar Latin during the early Middle Ages. Asturian was closely linked with the Kingdom of Asturias (718–910) and the ensuing Leonese kingdom. The language had contributions from pre-Roman languages spoken by the Astures, an Iberian Celtic tribe, and the post-Roman Germanic languages of the Visigoths and Suevi. CLDR language code = ast
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~asturian/.style = {
  locale/asturian/captions/refname        = Referencies,
  locale/asturian/captions/abstractname   = Sumariu,
  locale/asturian/captions/bibname        = Bibliografía,
  locale/asturian/captions/prefacename    = Entamu,
  locale/asturian/captions/chaptername    = Capítulu,
  locale/asturian/captions/appendixname   = Apéndiz,
  locale/asturian/captions/contentsname   = Conteníu,
  locale/asturian/captions/listfigurename = Llista~de~figures,
  locale/asturian/captions/listtablename  = Llista~de~tables,
  locale/asturian/captions/indexname      = Índiz,
  locale/asturian/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/asturian/captions/tablename      = Tabla,
  locale/asturian/captions/partname       = Parte,
  locale/asturian/captions/pagename       = Páxina,
  locale/asturian/captions/seename        = ver,
  locale/asturian/captions/alsoname       = ver~tamién,
  locale/asturian/captions/enclname       = incl.,
  locale/asturian/captions/ccname         = cc,
  locale/asturian/captions/headtoname     = Pa,
  locale/asturian/captions/proofname      = Demostración,
  locale/asturian/captions/glossaryname   = Glosariu,
  locale/asturian/date=\number\day~\ifcase\month\or
    de~xineru\or de~febreru\or de~marzu\or d'abril\or de~mayu\or de~xunu\or
    de~xunetu\or d'agostu\or de~setiembre\or d'ochobre\or de~payares\or
    d'avientu\fi\space de~\number\year,
}} 
\cxset{locale~Asturian/.alias = locale~asturian}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{Asturian}
% \section{Amharic}
% CLDR is am
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~amharic/.style = {
  locale/amharic/captions/refname        = የነሥ~ጹሁፍ~ምንጭ,
  locale/amharic/captions/abstractname   = አኅጽተሮ~ጽሁፍ,
  locale/amharic/captions/bibname        = ቢዋ~መጽሃፍት,
  locale/amharic/captions/prefacename    = መቅድም,
  locale/amharic/captions/chaptername    = ክፍል,
  locale/amharic/captions/appendixname   = መድበል,
  locale/amharic/captions/contentsname   = ይዘት,
  locale/amharic/captions/listfigurename = የሥዕችሎ~ማውጫ,
  locale/amharic/captions/listtablename  = የሰንጠዥረ~ማውጫ,
  locale/amharic/captions/indexname      = ምህጻር~ቃል,
  locale/amharic/captions/figurename     = ሥዕል,
  locale/amharic/captions/tablename      = ሰንጠረዥ,
  locale/amharic/captions/partname       = ንዑስ ክፍል,
  locale/amharic/captions/pagename       = ገጽ,
  locale/amharic/captions/seename        = ይመልከቱ,
  locale/amharic/captions/alsoname       = ይህምን~ይመልከቱ,
  locale/amharic/captions/enclname       = አባሪዎች,
  locale/amharic/captions/ccname         = ግልባጭ,
  locale/amharic/captions/headtoname     = ለ,
  locale/amharic/captions/proofname      = ማረጋገጫ,
  locale/amharic/captions/glossaryname   = የቃላት~መፍቻ,
  locale/amharic/date=\number\day\space\ifcase\month\or
    de~xineru\or de~febreru\or de~marzu\or d'abril\or de~mayu\or de~xunu\or
    de~xunetu\or d'agostu\or de~setiembre\or d'ochobre\or de~payares\or
    d'avientu\fi\space de~\number\year,
}}
 
\cxset{locale~Amharic/.alias = locale~amharic}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{Amharic}
% \section{Greek}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_greek #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: Ιανουαρίου
    \or: Φεβρουαρίου
    \or: Μαρτίου
    \or: Απριλίου
    \or: Μαΐου
    \or: Ιουνίου
    \or: Ιουλίου
    \or: Αυγούστου
    \or: Σεπτεμβρίου
    \or: Οκτωβρίου
    \or: Νοεμβρίου
    \or: Δεκεμβρίου
  \fi:
}
\cxset{locale~greek/.style = {
  locale/greek/captions/refname        = Αναφορές,
  locale/greek/captions/abstractname   = Περίληψη,
  locale/greek/captions/bibname        = Βιβλιογραφία,
  locale/greek/captions/prefacename    = Πρόλογος,
  locale/greek/captions/chaptername    = Κεφάλαιο,
  locale/greek/captions/appendixname   = Παράρτημα,
  locale/greek/captions/contentsname   = Περιεχόμενα,
  locale/greek/captions/listfigurename = Κατάλογος~σχημάτων,
  locale/greek/captions/listtablename  = Κατάλογος~πινάκων,
  locale/greek/captions/indexname      = Ευρετήριο,
  locale/greek/captions/figurename     = Σχήμα,
  locale/greek/captions/tablename      = Πίνακας,
  locale/greek/captions/partname       = Μέρος,
  locale/greek/captions/pagename       = Σελίδα,
  locale/greek/captions/seename        = βλέπε,
  locale/greek/captions/alsoname       = βλέπε~επίσης,
  locale/greek/captions/enclname       = Συνημμένα,
  locale/greek/captions/ccname         = Κοινοποίηση,
  locale/greek/captions/headtoname     = Προς,
  locale/greek/captions/proofname      = Απόδειξη,
  locale/greek/captions/glossaryname   = Γλωσσάρι,
  locale/greek/date = {\number\day\space%
     \l_phd_months_wide_greek {\month}
      \space\number\year},
}} 
\cxset{locale~Greek/.alias = locale~Greek}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{Greek}
% \section{German}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_german #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: Januar 
    \or: Februar
    \or: März
    \or: April
    \or: Mai
    \or: Juni
    \or: Juli
    \or: August
    \or: September
    \or: Oktober
    \or: November
    \or: Dezember
  \fi:
}
\cxset{locale~german/.style = {
  locale/german/captions/refname        = Literatur,
  locale/german/captions/abstractname   = Zusammenfassung,
  locale/german/captions/bibname        = Literaturverzeichnis,
  locale/german/captions/prefacename    = Vorwort,
  locale/german/captions/chaptername    = Kapitel,
  locale/german/captions/appendixname   = Anhang,
  locale/german/captions/contentsname   = Inhaltsverzeichnis,
  locale/german/captions/listfigurename = Abbildungsverzeichnis,
  locale/german/captions/listtablename  = Tabellenverzeichnis,
  locale/german/captions/indexname      = Index,
  locale/german/captions/figurename     = Abbildung,
  locale/german/captions/tablename      = Tabelle,
  locale/german/captions/partname       = Teil,
  locale/german/captions/pagename       = Seite,
  locale/german/captions/seename        = siehe,
  locale/german/captions/alsoname       = siehe~auch,
  locale/german/captions/enclname       = Anlage(n),
  locale/german/captions/ccname         = Verteiler,
  locale/german/captions/headtoname     = An,
  locale/german/captions/proofname      = Beweis,
  locale/german/captions/glossaryname   = Glossar,
  locale/german/date = {\number\day.%
    \space 
    \l_phd_months_wide_german{\month}
    \space \number\year},
}}  
\cxset{locale~German/.alias=locale~german} 
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \CaptionsList{German}
%
% \section{French}
% \subsection{French months} Months for French are defined as per CLDR. 
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_french #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
     \or: janvier
     \or: février
     \or: mars
     \or: avril
     \or: mai
     \or: juin
     \or: juillet
     \or: août
     \or: septembre
     \or: octobre
     \or: novembre
     \or: décembre
  \fi:
}
% 
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_abbreviated #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
     \or: janv.,
     \or: févr.,
     \or: mars,
     \or: avr.,
     \or: mai,
     \or: juin,
     \or: juil.,
     \or: août,
     \or: sept.,
     \or: oct.,
     \or: nov.,
     \or: déc.,
  \fi:
}
% 
\cxset{locale~french/.style = {
  locale/french/captions/refname        = Références,
  locale/french/captions/abstractname   = Résumé,
  locale/french/captions/bibname        = Bibliographie,
  locale/french/captions/prefacename    = Préface,
  locale/french/captions/chaptername    = Chapitre,
  locale/french/captions/appendixname   = Annexe,
  locale/french/captions/contentsname   = Table~des~matières,
  locale/french/captions/listfigurename = Table~des~figures,
  locale/french/captions/listtablename  = Liste~des~tableaux,
  locale/french/captions/indexname      = Index ,
  locale/french/captions/figurename     = \textsc{Fig.},
  locale/french/captions/tablename      = \textsc{Tab.} ,
  locale/french/captions/partname       = ,
  locale/french/captions/pagename       = page,
  locale/french/captions/seename        = \emph{voir},
  locale/french/captions/alsoname       = \emph{voir~aussi} ,
  locale/french/captions/enclname       = P.~J.,
  locale/french/captions/ccname         = Copie~à ,
  locale/french/captions/headtoname     = {} ,
  locale/french/captions/proofname      = Démonstration,
  locale/french/captions/glossaryname   = ,
  locale/french/date = 
      {
        \ifx\ier\undefined\def\ier{er}\fi
        \ifnum\day=1\relax~1\ier%
        \else \number\day\fi
        \space 
        \l_phd_months_wide_french {\month}
        \space 
        \number\year
      },
}} 

\cxset{locale~French/.alias = locale~french}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{French}
% \section{Italian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_italian #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
     \or: gennaio
     \or: febbraio
     \or: marzo
     \or: aprile
     \or: maggio
     \or: giugno
     \or: luglio
     \or: agosto
     \or: settembre
     \or: ottobre
     \or: novembre
     \or: dicembre
  \fi:
}
\cxset{locale~italian/.style = {
  locale/italian/captions/refname = Riferimenti bibliografici,
  locale/italian/captions/abstractname   = Sommario ,
  locale/italian/captions/bibname        = Bibliografia ,
  locale/italian/captions/prefacename    = Prefazione ,
  locale/italian/captions/chaptername    = Capitolo,
  locale/italian/captions/appendixname   = Appendice ,
  locale/italian/captions/contentsname   = Indice ,
  locale/italian/captions/listfigurename = Elenco~delle~figure,
  locale/italian/captions/listtablename  = Elenco~delle~tabelle,
  locale/italian/captions/indexname      = Indice~analitico,
  locale/italian/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/italian/captions/tablename      = Tabella,
  locale/italian/captions/partname       = Parte ,
  locale/italian/captions/pagename       = Pag. , %in Italian abbreviation is preferred
  locale/italian/captions/seename        = vedi ,
  locale/italian/captions/alsoname       = vedi~anche,
  locale/italian/captions/enclname       = Allegati,
  locale/italian/captions/ccname         = e~p.~c. ,
  locale/italian/captions/headtoname     = Per,
  locale/italian/captions/proofname      = Dimostrazione,
  locale/italian/captions/glossaryname   = Glossario,
  locale/italian/date = {\number\day\space
    \l_phd_months_wide_italian {\month}
   \space\number\year},
}} 
\cxset{locale~Italian/.alias = locale~italian}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{Italian}
% \section{Albanian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_albanian #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: Janar
    \or: Shkurt
    \or: Mars
    \or: Prill
    \or: Maj
    \or: Qershor
    \or: Korrik
    \or: Gusht
    \or: Shtator
    \or: Tetor
    \or: Nëntor
    \or: Dhjetor  
  \fi:
}
\cxset{locale~albanian/.style = {
  locale/albanian/captions/refname        = Referencat,
  locale/albanian/captions/abstractname   = Përmbledhja ,
  locale/albanian/captions/bibname        = Bibliografia ,
  locale/albanian/captions/prefacename    = Parathenia,
  locale/albanian/captions/chaptername    = Kapitulli,
  locale/albanian/captions/appendixname   = Shtesa,
  locale/albanian/captions/contentsname   = Përmbajta,
  locale/albanian/captions/listfigurename = Figurat,
  locale/albanian/captions/listtablename  = Tabelat,
  locale/albanian/captions/indexname      = Indeksi,
  locale/albanian/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/albanian/captions/tablename      = Tabela,
  locale/albanian/captions/partname       = Pjesa,
  locale/albanian/captions/pagename       = Faqe,
  locale/albanian/captions/seename        = shiko,
  locale/albanian/captions/alsoname       = shiko~dhe,
  locale/albanian/captions/enclname       = ,
  locale/albanian/captions/ccname         = ,
  locale/albanian/captions/headtoname     = ,
  locale/albanian/captions/proofname      = Vërtetim,
  locale/albanian/captions/glossaryname   = Përhasja~e~Fjalëve ,
  locale/albanian/date=\number\day\space
  \l_phd_months_wide_albanian {\month}
   \space \number\year,
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Malayalam}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~malayalam/.style = {
  locale/malayalam/captions/refname = ,
  locale/malayalam/captions/abstractname   = സാരാംശം,
  locale/malayalam/captions/bibname        = ,
  locale/malayalam/captions/prefacename    = ,
  locale/malayalam/captions/chaptername    = \panunicode അദ്ധ്യായം,
  locale/malayalam/captions/appendixname   = ശിഷ്ടം,
  locale/malayalam/captions/contentsname   = \panunicode ഉള്ളടക്കം,
  locale/malayalam/captions/listfigurename = ചിത്രസൂചിക,
  locale/malayalam/captions/listtablename  = പട്ടികകളുടെ~സൂചിക,
  locale/malayalam/captions/indexname      = സൂചിക,
  locale/malayalam/captions/figurename     = ചിത്രം,
  locale/malayalam/captions/tablename      = പട്ടിക,
  locale/malayalam/captions/partname       = ,
  locale/malayalam/captions/pagename       = , 
  locale/malayalam/captions/seename        = കാണുക,
  locale/malayalam/captions/alsoname       = ഇതും~കാണുക,
  locale/malayalam/captions/enclname       = ,
  locale/malayalam/captions/ccname         = ,
  locale/malayalam/captions/headtoname     = ,
  locale/malayalam/captions/proofname      = ,
  locale/malayalam/captions/glossaryname   = ,
  locale/malayalam/date                    = {
  \panunicode\number\year\space\ifcase\month\or
     ജനുവരി\or
     ഫിബ്രുവരി\or
     മാർച്ച്\or
     ഏപ്രിൽ\or
     മെയ്\or
     ജൂൺ\or
     ജൂലായ്\or
     ആഗസ്ത്\or
     സെപ്തംബർ\or
     ഒക്ടോബർ\or
     നവംബർ\or
     ഡിസംബർ\fi
     \space\number\day},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{malayalam}
% \section{Russian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_russian #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
     \or: января
     \or: февраля
     \or: марта
     \or: апреля
     \or: мая
     \or: июня
     \or: июля
     \or: августа
     \or: сентября
     \or: октября
     \or: ноября
     \or: декабря
  \fi:
}
\cxset{locale~russian/.style = {
  locale/russian/captions/refname        = Список~литературы,
  locale/russian/captions/abstractname   = Аннотация,
  locale/russian/captions/bibname        = Литература,
  locale/russian/captions/prefacename    = Предисловие,
  locale/russian/captions/chaptername    = Глава,
  locale/russian/captions/appendixname  
  
   = Приложение,
  locale/russian/captions/contentsname   = Оглавление,
  locale/russian/captions/listfigurename = Список~иллюстраций,
  locale/russian/captions/listtablename  = Список~таблиц,
  locale/russian/captions/indexname      = Предметный~указатель,
  locale/russian/captions/figurename     = Рис.,
  locale/russian/captions/tablename      = Таблица,
  locale/russian/captions/partname       = Часть,
  locale/russian/captions/pagename       = с., 
  locale/russian/captions/seename        = см.,
  locale/russian/captions/alsoname       = см.~также,
  locale/russian/captions/enclname       = вкл.,
  locale/russian/captions/ccname         = исх.,
  locale/russian/captions/headtoname     = вх.,
  locale/russian/captions/proofname      = Доказательство,
  locale/russian/captions/glossaryname = ,
  locale/russian/date = 
    {\number\day%
      \space
       \l_phd_months_wide_russian {\month}
      \space \number\year\space г.},
  }
} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{russian}
% \section{Basque}
% The Basque language definitions are in line with those of Babel and Polyglossia. Sadly we do not
% have any miller's numbers yet. See Languages Monograph for more details.
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_basque #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: urtarrilaren
    \or: otsailaren
    \or: martxoaren
    \or: apirilaren
    \or: maiatzaren
    \or: ekainaren
    \or: uztailaren
    \or: abuztuaren
    \or: irailaren
    \or: urriaren
    \or: azaroaren
    \or: abenduaren
  \fi:
}
\cxset{locale~basque/.style = {
  locale/basque/captions/refname        = Erreferentziak,
  locale/basque/captions/abstractname   = Laburpena,
  locale/basque/captions/bibname        = Bibliografia,
  locale/basque/captions/prefacename    = Hitzaurrea,
  locale/basque/captions/chaptername    = Kapitulua,
  locale/basque/captions/appendixname   = Eranskina,
  locale/basque/captions/contentsname   = Gaien~Aurkibidea,
  locale/basque/captions/listfigurename = Irudien~Zerrenda,
  locale/basque/captions/listtablename  = Taulen Zerrenda,
  locale/basque/captions/indexname      = Kontzeptuen Aurkibidea,
  locale/basque/captions/figurename     = Irudia,
  locale/basque/captions/tablename      = Taula,
  locale/basque/captions/partname       = Atala,
  locale/basque/captions/pagename       = Orria , 
  locale/basque/captions/seename        = Ikusi,
  locale/basque/captions/alsoname       = {Ikusi,~halaber}, % has a comma!
  locale/basque/captions/enclname       = Erantsia,
  locale/basque/captions/ccname         = Kopia,
  locale/basque/captions/headtoname     = Nori,
  locale/basque/captions/proofname      = Frogapena,
  locale/basque/captions/glossaryname   = Glosarioa,
  locale/basque/date = {\number\year.eko\space
  \l_phd_months_wide_basque{\month}
  \space\number\day},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{basque}
% \section{Brazil}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_brazil #1 
  {
    \if_case:w #1
      \or: janeiro
      \or: fevereiro
      \or: março
      \or: abril
      \or: maio
      \or: junho
      \or: julho
      \or: agosto
      \or: setembro
      \or: outubro
      \or: novembro
      \or: dezembro 
    \fi:
  }
\cxset{locale~brazil/.style = {
  locale/brazil/captions/refname        = Referências,
  locale/brazil/captions/abstractname   = Resumo,
  locale/brazil/captions/bibname        = Referências~Bibliográficas,
  locale/brazil/captions/prefacename    = Prefácio,
  locale/brazil/captions/chaptername    = Capitulo,
  locale/brazil/captions/appendixname   = Apêndice,
  locale/brazil/captions/contentsname   = Sumário,
  locale/brazil/captions/listfigurename = Lista~de~Figuras,
  locale/brazil/captions/listtablename  = Lista~de~Tabelas,
  locale/brazil/captions/indexname      = Índice~Remissivo,
  locale/brazil/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/brazil/captions/tablename      = Tabela,
  locale/brazil/captions/partname       = Parte,
  locale/brazil/captions/pagename       = Página, 
  locale/brazil/captions/seename        = veja,
  locale/brazil/captions/alsoname       = veja~também,
  locale/brazil/captions/enclname       = Anexo,
  locale/brazil/captions/ccname         = Cópia~para,
  locale/brazil/captions/headtoname     = Para,
  locale/brazil/captions/proofname      = Demonstração,
  locale/brazil/captions/glossaryname   = Glossário,
  locale/brazil/date = {\number\day\space de\space\ifcase\month\or
      janeiro\or fevereiro\or março\or abril\or maio\or junho\or
      julho\or agosto\or setembro\or outubro\or novembro\or dezembro%
      \fi\space de\space\number\year},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{brazil}
% \section{Breton}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_breton #1 
  {
    \if_case:w #1
     \or: Genver
     \or: C'hwevrer
     \or: Meurzh
     \or: Ebrel
     \or: Mae
     \or: Mezheven
     \or: Gouere
     \or: Eost
     \or: Gwengolo
     \or: Here
     \or: Du
     \or: Kerzu
    \fi:
  }
\cxset{locale~breton/.style = {
  locale/breton/captions/refname        = Daveennoù,
  locale/breton/captions/abstractname   = Dvierrañ,
  locale/breton/captions/bibname        = Lennadurezh,
  locale/breton/captions/prefacename    = Rakskrid,
  locale/breton/captions/chaptername    = Pennad,
  locale/breton/captions/appendixname   = Stagadenn,
  locale/breton/captions/contentsname   = Taolenn,
  locale/breton/captions/listfigurename = Listenn~ar~Figurennoù,
  locale/breton/captions/listtablename  = Listenn~an~taolennoù,
  locale/breton/captions/indexname      = Meneger,
  locale/breton/captions/figurename     = Figurenn,
  locale/breton/captions/tablename      = Taolenn,
  locale/breton/captions/partname       = Lodenn,
  locale/breton/captions/pagename       = Pajenn, 
  locale/breton/captions/seename        = Gwelout,
  locale/breton/captions/alsoname       = Gwelout~ivez,
  locale/breton/captions/enclname       = Dielloù~kevret,
  locale/breton/captions/ccname         = Eilskrid~da,
  locale/breton/captions/headtoname     = evit,
  locale/breton/captions/proofname      = Proof,
  locale/breton/captions/glossaryname   = Glossary,
  locale/breton/date = 
    {\ifnum\day=1\relax 1\/\textsuperscript{añ}\else
    \number\day\fi \space a\space viz\space
    \l_phd_months_wide_breton {\month}
    \space\number\year},
  }
} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Bulgarian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_bulgarian #1 
  {
    \if_case:w #1
      \or: януари
      \or: февруари
      \or: март
      \or: април
      \or: май
      \or: юни
      \or: юли
      \or: август
      \or: септември
      \or: октомври
      \or: ноември
      \or: декември
    \fi:
  }
\cxset{locale~bulgarian/.style = {
  locale/bulgarian/captions/refname        = Литература,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/abstractname   = Абстракт,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/bibname        = Библиография,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/prefacename    = Предговор,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/chaptername    = Глава,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/appendixname   = Приложение,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/contentsname   = Съдържание,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/listfigurename = Списък~на~фигурите,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/listtablename  = Списък~на~таблиците,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/indexname      = Азбучен~указател,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/figurename     = Фигура,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/tablename      = Таблица,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/partname       = ,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/pagename       = Стр., 
  locale/bulgarian/captions/seename        = вж.,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/alsoname       = вж.\~също~и,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/enclname       = Приложения,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/ccname         = копия,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/headtoname     = {},
  locale/bulgarian/captions/proofname      = Proof,
  locale/bulgarian/captions/glossaryname   = Glossary,
  locale/bulgarian/date = {\number\day\space
       \l_phd_months_wide_bulgarian {\month}
       \space\number\year\space г.},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{bulgarian}
% \section{Catalan}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_catalan #1 
  {
    \if_case:w #1
     \or: de~gener
     \or: de~febrer
     \or: de~març
     \or: d'abril
     \or: de~maig
     \or: de~juny
     \or: de~juliol
     \or: d'agost
     \or: de setembre
     \or: d'octubre
     \or: de~novembre
     \or: de~desembre 
    \fi:
  }
\cxset{locale~catalan/.style = {
  locale/catalan/captions/refname        = Referències,
  locale/catalan/captions/abstractname   = Resum,
  locale/catalan/captions/bibname        = Bibliografia,
  locale/catalan/captions/prefacename    = Pròleg,
  locale/catalan/captions/chaptername    = Capítol,
  locale/catalan/captions/appendixname   = Apèndix,
  locale/catalan/captions/contentsname   = Índex,
  locale/catalan/captions/listfigurename = Índex~de~figures,
  locale/catalan/captions/listtablename  = Índex~de~taules,
  locale/catalan/captions/indexname      = Índex~alfabètic,
  locale/catalan/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/catalan/captions/tablename      = Taula,
  locale/catalan/captions/partname       = Part,
  locale/catalan/captions/pagename       = Pàgina , 
  locale/catalan/captions/seename        = Vegeu,
  locale/catalan/captions/alsoname       = Vegeu~també ,
  locale/catalan/captions/enclname       = Adjunt,
  locale/catalan/captions/ccname         = Còpies~a,
  locale/catalan/captions/headtoname     = A,
  locale/catalan/captions/proofname      = Demostració,
  locale/catalan/captions/glossaryname   = Glossari,
  locale/catalan/date ={\number\day\space
    \l_phd_months_wide_catalan {\month} 
    \space de~\number\year} ,
}} 
\cxset{locale~Catalan/.alias = locale~catalan}
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \CaptionsList{Catalan}
%
% \section{Croatian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_croatian #1 
  {
    \if_case:w #1
     \or: siječnja
     \or: veljače
     \or: ožujka
     \or travnja
     \or svibnja
     \or lipnja
     \or srpnja
     \or kolovoza
     \or rujna
     \or listopada
     \or studenoga
     \or prosinca 
    \fi:
  }
\cxset{locale~croatian/.style = {
  locale/croatian/captions/refname        = Literatura,
  locale/croatian/captions/abstractname   = Sažetak,
  locale/croatian/captions/bibname        = Bibliografija,
  locale/croatian/captions/prefacename    = Predgovor,
  locale/croatian/captions/chaptername    = Poglavlje,
  locale/croatian/captions/appendixname   = Dodatak,
  locale/croatian/captions/contentsname   = Sadržaj,
  locale/croatian/captions/listfigurename = Popis~slika,
  locale/croatian/captions/listtablename  = Popis~tablica,
  locale/croatian/captions/indexname      = Kazalo,
  locale/croatian/captions/figurename     = Slika,
  locale/croatian/captions/tablename      = Tablica,
  locale/croatian/captions/partname       = Dio,
  locale/croatian/captions/pagename       = Stranica, 
  locale/croatian/captions/seename        = Vidjeti,
  locale/croatian/captions/alsoname       = Također~vidjeti,
  locale/croatian/captions/enclname       = Prilozi,
  locale/croatian/captions/ccname         = Kopija,
  locale/croatian/captions/headtoname     = Prima,
  locale/croatian/captions/proofname      = Dokaz,
  locale/croatian/captions/glossaryname   = Pojmovnik,
  locale/croatian/date ={\number\day.\space
  \l_phd_months_wide_croatian {\month} 
  \space \number\year.},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Czech}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_czech #1{
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: ledna
    \or: února
    \or: března
    \or: dubna
    \or: května
    \or: června
    \or: července
    \or: srpna
    \or: září
    \or: října
    \or: listopadu
    \or: prosince 
  \fi:
}  
\cxset{locale~czech/.style = {
  locale/czech/captions/refname        = Referències,
  locale/czech/captions/abstractname   = Resum,
  locale/czech/captions/bibname        = Bibliografia,
  locale/czech/captions/prefacename    = Pròleg,
  locale/czech/captions/chaptername    = Kapitola,
  locale/czech/captions/appendixname   = Apèndix,
  locale/czech/captions/contentsname   = Obsah,
  locale/czech/captions/listfigurename = Índex~de~figures,
  locale/czech/captions/listtablename  = Índex~de~taules,
  locale/czech/captions/indexname      = Índex~alfabètic,
  locale/czech/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/czech/captions/tablename      = Taula,
  locale/czech/captions/partname       = Part,
  locale/czech/captions/pagename       = Pàgina, 
  locale/czech/captions/seename        = Vegeu,
  locale/czech/captions/alsoname       = Vegeu~també,
  locale/czech/captions/enclname       = Adjunt,
  locale/czech/captions/ccname         = Còpies~a,
  locale/czech/captions/headtoname     = A,
  locale/czech/captions/proofname      = Demostració,
  locale/czech/captions/glossaryname   = Glossari,
  locale/czech/date = 
    {\number\day.\space
     \l_phd_months_wide_czech {\month}
    \space \number\year},
    }
} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Danish}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_danish #1{
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: januar
    \or: februar
    \or: marts
    \or: april
    \or: maj
    \or: juni
    \or: juli
    \or: august
    \or: september
    \or: oktober
    \or: november
    \or: december
  \fi:
}  
\cxset{locale~danish/.style = {
  locale/danish/captions/refname        = Litteratur,
  locale/danish/captions/abstractname   = Resumé,
  locale/danish/captions/bibname        = Litteratur,
  locale/danish/captions/prefacename    = Forord,
  locale/danish/captions/chaptername    = Kapitel,
  locale/danish/captions/appendixname   = Bilag,
  locale/danish/captions/contentsname   = Indhold,
  locale/danish/captions/listfigurename = Figurer,
  locale/danish/captions/listtablename  = Tabeller,
  locale/danish/captions/indexname      = Indeks,
  locale/danish/captions/figurename     = Figur,
  locale/danish/captions/tablename      = Tabel,
  locale/danish/captions/partname       = Del,
  locale/danish/captions/pagename       = Side, 
  locale/danish/captions/seename        = Se,
  locale/danish/captions/alsoname       = Se~også,
  locale/danish/captions/enclname       = Vedlagt,
  locale/danish/captions/ccname         = Kopi~til,
  locale/danish/captions/headtoname     = Til,
  locale/danish/captions/proofname      = Bevis,
  locale/danish/captions/glossaryname   = Gloseliste ,
  locale/danish/date ={\number\day.\space
    \l_phd_months_wide_danish {\month}
    \space\number\year},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Estonian}
%   See \href{http://www.eki.ee/itstandard/2000/FDCC.shtml.en#c4}{estonian} local page for 
%    standards. 
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_estonian #1{
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: jaanuar
    \or: veebruar
    \or: märts
    \or: aprill
    \or: mai
    \or: juuni
    \or: juuli
    \or: august
    \or: september
    \or: oktoober
    \or: november
    \or: detsember
  \fi:
}  
\cxset{locale~estonian/.style = {
  locale/estonian/captions/refname = Viited,
  locale/estonian/captions/abstractname   = Kokkuvõte,
  locale/estonian/captions/bibname        = Kirjandus,
  locale/estonian/captions/prefacename    = Sissejuhatus,
  locale/estonian/captions/chaptername    = Peatükk,
  locale/estonian/captions/appendixname   = Lisa,
  locale/estonian/captions/contentsname   = Sisukord,
  locale/estonian/captions/listfigurename = Joonised,
  locale/estonian/captions/listtablename  = Tabelid,
  locale/estonian/captions/indexname      = Indeks,
  locale/estonian/captions/figurename     = Joonis ,
  locale/estonian/captions/tablename      = Tabel,
  locale/estonian/captions/partname       = Osa,
  locale/estonian/captions/pagename       = Lk., 
  locale/estonian/captions/seename        = vt.,
  locale/estonian/captions/alsoname       = vt.~ka,
  locale/estonian/captions/enclname       = Lisa(d),
  locale/estonian/captions/ccname         = Koopia(d),
  locale/estonian/captions/headtoname     = ,
  locale/estonian/captions/proofname      = Korrektuur,
  locale/estonian/captions/glossaryname   = , %unknown
  locale/estonian/date =
   {\number\day.\space
      \l_phd_months_wide_estonian{\month}
      \space\number\year.\space a.
   },
}} 
\cxset{locale~esti/.alias=locale~estonian,
       esti/.alias=locale~estonian,
       locale~Greek/.alias=locale~greek}
       
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Finnish}
% The data for Finnish has been collected from Polyglossia, Babel, Translator,
% CLDR files and IBM. It is missing at this stage . 
%    \begin{macrocode}   
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_abbreviated_finnish#1{
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: tammi
    \or: helmi
    \or: maalis
    \or: huhti
    \or: touko
    \or: kesä
    \or: heinä
    \or: eloa
    \or: syys
    \or: loka
    \or: marras
    \or: joulu
  \fi:
} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% I am not too sure if the below are correct. They have been copied from the relevant
% CLDR file, but as we can see these abbreviations will result in ambiguous date strings.
% The example at IBM \footnote{See \href{https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSS28S_8.2.0/XFDL_Specification/i_xfdl_r_formats_fi_FI.html}{IBM Knowledge Center}} uses two character abbreviations, but does not list all of them.
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_narrow_finnish#1{
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: T
    \or: H
    \or: M
    \or: H
    \or: T
    \or: K
    \or: H
    \or: E
    \or: S
    \or: L
    \or: M
    \or: J
  \fi:
} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% The wide months are used as the default.
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_finnish#1{
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: tammikuuta
    \or: helmikuuta
    \or: maaliskuuta
    \or: huhtikuuta
    \or: toukokuuta
    \or: kesäkuuta
    \or: heinäkuuta
    \or: elokuuta
    \or: syyskuuta
    \or: lokakuuta
    \or: marraskuuta
    \or: joulukuuta
  \fi:
}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \subsection{Lists}
% The Finnish alphabet has three extra letters Å, Ä and Ö. The \enquote{Swedish o} is 
% redundant in Finnish, but is used for writing Finland-Swedish proper names.
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_new:Npn \int_to_Alph_finnish:n #1
 {
 \int_to_symbols:nnn {#1} { 29 }
 {
  { 1 } { A }
  { 2 } { B }
  { 3 } { C }
  { 4 } { D }
  { 5 } { E }
  { 6 } { F }
  { 7 } { G }
  { 8 } { H }
  { 9 } { I }
  { 10 } { J }
  { 11 } { K }
  { 12 } { L }
  { 13 } { M }
  { 14 } { N }
  { 15 } { O }
  { 16 } { P }
  { 17}  { Q }
  { 18 } { R }
  { 19 } { S }
  { 20 } { T }
  { 21 } { U }
  { 22 } { V }
  { 23 } { W }
  { 24 } { X }
  { 25 } { Y }
  { 26 } { Z }
  { 27 } { Å }
  { 28 } { Ä }
  { 29 } { Ö }
 }
}
\cs_new:Npn \int_to_alph_finnish:n #1
 {
 \int_to_symbols:nnn {#1} { 29 }
 {
  { 1 } { a }
  { 2 } { b }
  { 3 } { c }
  { 4 } { d }
  { 5 } { e }
  { 6 } { f }
  { 7 } { g }
  { 8 } { h }
  { 9 } { i }
  { 10 } { j }
  { 11 } { k }
  { 12 } { l }
  { 13 } { m }
  { 14 } { n }
  { 15 } { o }
  { 16 } { p }
  { 17}  { q }
  { 18 } { r }
  { 19 } { s }
  { 20 } { t }
  { 21 } { u }
  { 22 } { v }
  { 23 } { w }
  { 24 } { x }
  { 25 } { y }
  { 26 } { z }
  { 27 } { å }
  { 28 } { ä }
  { 29 } { ö }
 }
}
%    \end{macrocode}
% We will avoid getting into collations orders and leave this for external sorting
% libraries.
%    \begin{macrocode}

\cxset{locale~finnish/.style = {
  locale/finnish/captions/refname        = Viitteet,
  locale/finnish/captions/abstractname   = Tiivistelmä,
  locale/finnish/captions/bibname        = Kirjallisuutta,
  locale/finnish/captions/prefacename    = Esipuhe,
  locale/finnish/captions/chaptername    = Luku,
  locale/finnish/captions/appendixname   = Liite,
  locale/finnish/captions/contentsname   = Sisältö,
  locale/finnish/captions/listfigurename = Kuvat,
  locale/finnish/captions/listtablename  = Taulukot,
  locale/finnish/captions/indexname      = Hakemisto,
  locale/finnish/captions/figurename     = Kuva,
  locale/finnish/captions/tablename      = Taulukko,
  locale/finnish/captions/partname       = Osa,
  locale/finnish/captions/pagename       = Sivu, 
  locale/finnish/captions/seename        = katso,
  locale/finnish/captions/alsoname       = katso~myös,
  locale/finnish/captions/enclname       = Liitteet,
  locale/finnish/captions/ccname         = Jakelu,
  locale/finnish/captions/headtoname     = Vastaanottaja,
  locale/finnish/captions/proofname      = Todistus,
  locale/finnish/captions/glossaryname   = Sanasto,
  locale/finnish/date ={
    \number\day.\space
    \l_phd_months_wide_finnish{\month}
    \space\number\year},
}} 
\cxset{locale~Finnish/.alias = locale~finnish}  
%    \end{macrocode} 
%
% \CaptionsList{finnish}  
% \section{Friulan}   
% See \href{http://www.siencis-par-furlan.net/wp-content/uploads/cil.e.tiere_.2014.1.pdf}{Friulian Journal of Science}.
%    \begin{macrocode}  
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_friulian#1 {
  \if_case:w #1
   \or: Genâr
   \or: Fevrâr
   \or: Març
   \or: Avril
   \or: Mai
   \or: Jugn
   \or: Lui
   \or: Avost
   \or: Setembar
   \or: Otobar
   \or: Novembar
   \or: Dicembar
  \fi:
}       
\cxset{locale~friulan/.style = {
  locale/friulan/captions/refname = ,
  locale/friulan/captions/abstractname   = Somari,
  locale/friulan/captions/bibname        = Bibliografie,
  locale/friulan/captions/prefacename    = Prefazion,
  locale/friulan/captions/chaptername    = Cjapitul,
  locale/friulan/captions/appendixname   = Zonte,
  locale/friulan/captions/contentsname   = Tabele~gjenerâl,
  locale/friulan/captions/listfigurename = Liste~des~figuris,
  locale/friulan/captions/listtablename  = Liste~des~tabelis,
  locale/friulan/captions/indexname      = Tabele~analitiche,
  locale/friulan/captions/figurename  	 = Figure,
  locale/friulan/captions/tablename      = Tabele,
  locale/friulan/captions/partname       = Part,
  locale/friulan/captions/pagename       = Pagjine, 
  locale/friulan/captions/seename        = cjale,
  locale/friulan/captions/alsoname       = cjale~ancje,
  locale/friulan/captions/enclname       = Zonte(is),
  locale/friulan/captions/ccname         = Cun~copie~a,
  locale/friulan/captions/headtoname     = Par,
  locale/friulan/captions/proofname      = Dimostrazion,
  locale/friulan/captions/glossaryname   = Glossari,
  locale/friulan/date ={\number\day\space di\space
  \l_phd_months_wide_friulian {\month}
  \space dal\space\number\year},
}}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Galician}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cs_set:Npn \l_phd_months_wide_galician #1 {
  \if_case:w #1
   \or: Genâr
   \or: Fevrâr
   \or: Març
   \or: Avril
   \or: Mai
   \or: Jugn
   \or: Lui
   \or: Avost
   \or: Setembar
   \or: Otobar
   \or: Novembar
   \or: Dicembar
  \fi:
}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Galician}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~galician/.style = {
  locale/galician/captions/refname        = Referencias ,
  locale/galician/captions/abstractname   = Resumo,
  locale/galician/captions/bibname        = Bibliografía,
  locale/galician/captions/prefacename    = Prefacio,
  locale/galician/captions/chaptername    = Capítulo,
  locale/galician/captions/appendixname   = Apéndice,
  locale/galician/captions/contentsname   = Índice~Xeral,
  locale/galician/captions/listfigurename = Índice~de~Figuras,
  locale/galician/captions/listtablename  = Índice~de~Táboas,
  locale/galician/captions/indexname      = Índice~de~Materias,
  locale/galician/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/galician/captions/tablename      = Táboa,
  locale/galician/captions/partname       = Parte,
  locale/galician/captions/pagename       = Páxina, 
  locale/galician/captions/seename        = véxase,
  locale/galician/captions/alsoname       = véxase~tamén,
  locale/galician/captions/enclname       = Adxunto,
  locale/galician/captions/ccname         = Copia~a,
  locale/galician/captions/headtoname     = A,
  locale/galician/captions/proofname      = Demostración,
  locale/galician/captions/glossaryname   = Glosario,
  locale/galician/date ={\number\day~de\space\ifcase\month\or
    xaneiro\or febreiro\or marzo\or abril\or maio\or xuño\or
    xullo\or agosto\or setembro\or outubro\or novembro\or decembro\fi
    \space de~\number\year},
}}   
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{galician}
% \section{Icelandic}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~icelandic/.style = {
  locale/icelandic/captions/refname        = Heimildir,
  locale/icelandic/captions/abstractname   = Útdráttur,
  locale/icelandic/captions/bibname        = Heimildir,
  locale/icelandic/captions/prefacename    = Formáli,
  locale/icelandic/captions/chaptername    = Kafli,
  locale/icelandic/captions/appendixname   = Viðauki,
  locale/icelandic/captions/contentsname   = Efnisyfirlit ,
  locale/icelandic/captions/listfigurename = Myndaskrá,
  locale/icelandic/captions/listtablename  =Töfluskrá,
  locale/icelandic/captions/indexname      = Atriðisorðaskrá,
  locale/icelandic/captions/figurename     = Mynd,
  locale/icelandic/captions/tablename      = Tafla,
  locale/icelandic/captions/partname       = Hluti,
  locale/icelandic/captions/pagename       = Blaðsíða, 
  locale/icelandic/captions/seename        = Sjá,
  locale/icelandic/captions/alsoname       = Sjá einnig,
  locale/icelandic/captions/enclname       = Hjálagt,
  locale/icelandic/captions/ccname         = Samrit,
  locale/icelandic/captions/headtoname     = Til:,
  locale/icelandic/captions/proofname      = Sönnun,
  locale/icelandic/captions/glossaryname   = Orðalisti,
  locale/icelandic/date ={\number\day.\space\ifcase\month\or
    janúar\or febrúar\or mars\or apríl\or maí\or
    júní\or júlí\or ágúst\or september\or
    október\or nóvember\or desember\fi
    \space\number\year},
}}     
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{icelandic}
% \section{Irish}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~irish/.style = {
  locale/irish/captions/refname        = Tagairtí,
  locale/irish/captions/abstractname   = Achoimre,
  locale/irish/captions/bibname        = Leabharliosta,
  locale/irish/captions/prefacename    = Réamhrá,
  locale/irish/captions/chaptername    = Tagairtí,
  locale/irish/captions/appendixname   = Aguisín ,
  locale/irish/captions/contentsname   = Clár~Ábhair,
  locale/irish/captions/listfigurename = Léaráidí ,
  locale/irish/captions/listtablename  = Táblaí ,
  locale/irish/captions/indexname      = Innéacs,
  locale/irish/captions/figurename     = Léaráid,
  locale/irish/captions/tablename      = Tábla,
  locale/irish/captions/partname       = Cuid,
  locale/irish/captions/pagename       = Leathanach, 
  locale/irish/captions/seename        = féach,
  locale/irish/captions/alsoname       = féach~freisin,
  locale/irish/captions/enclname       = faoi~iamh,
  locale/irish/captions/ccname         = cc,
  locale/irish/captions/headtoname     = Go,
  locale/irish/captions/proofname      = Cruthúnas,
  locale/irish/captions/glossaryname   = Glossary,
  locale/irish/date ={\number\day\space \ifcase\month\or
    Eanáir\or Feabhra\or Márta\or Aibreán\or
    Bealtaine\or Meitheamh\or Iúil\or Lúnasa\or
    Meán Fómhair\or Deireadh Fómhair\or
    Mí na Samhna\or Mí na Nollag\fi
    \space \number\year},
}}   
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{irish}
% \section{Latin}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~latin/.style = {
  locale/latin/captions/refname = Conspectus librorum,
  locale/latin/captions/abstractname = Summarium,
  locale/latin/captions/bibname       = Conspectus librorum,
  locale/latin/captions/prefacename   = Praefatio, % change for medieval
  locale/latin/captions/chaptername   = Caput,
  locale/latin/captions/appendixname  = Additamentum,
  locale/latin/captions/contentsname = Index,
  locale/latin/captions/listfigurename = Conspectus~descriptionum,
  locale/latin/captions/listtablename = Conspectus~tabularum,
  locale/latin/captions/indexname = Index~rerum~notabilium,
  locale/latin/captions/figurename  = Descriptio,
  locale/latin/captions/tablename = Tabula,
  locale/latin/captions/partname = Pars,
  locale/latin/captions/pagename = charta, 
  locale/latin/captions/seename  = cfr.,
  locale/latin/captions/alsoname = cfr.,
  locale/latin/captions/enclname = Additur,
  locale/latin/captions/ccname = Exemplar,
  locale/latin/captions/headtoname =,
  locale/latin/captions/proofname = Demonstratio,
  locale/latin/captions/glossaryname = Glossarium,
  locale/latin/date ={\uppercase\expandafter{\romannumeral\day}%
      \space \ifcase\month%
      \or Januarii\or Februarii\or Martii\or Aprilis\or Maji\or
      Junii\or Julii\or Augusti\or Septembris\or Octobris\or
         Novembris
      \or Decembris\fi%
      \space \uppercase\expandafter{\romannumeral\year}},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Latvian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~latvian/.style = {
  locale/latvian/captions/refname        = Literatūras~saraksts,
  locale/latvian/captions/abstractname   = Anotācija,
  locale/latvian/captions/bibname        = Literatūra,
  locale/latvian/captions/prefacename    = Priekšvārds,
  locale/latvian/captions/chaptername    = Nodaļa,
  locale/latvian/captions/appendixname   = Pielikums,
  locale/latvian/captions/contentsname   = Saturs,
  locale/latvian/captions/listfigurename = Attēlu~saraksts,
  locale/latvian/captions/listtablename  = Tabulu~saraksts,
  locale/latvian/captions/indexname      = Index,
  locale/latvian/captions/figurename     = Att.,
  locale/latvian/captions/tablename      = Tabula,
  locale/latvian/captions/partname       = Daļa,
  locale/latvian/captions/pagename       = lpp., 
  locale/latvian/captions/seename        = sk.,
  locale/latvian/captions/alsoname       = sk. arī,
  locale/latvian/captions/enclname       = encl,
  locale/latvian/captions/ccname         = cc,
  locale/latvian/captions/headtoname     = To,
  locale/latvian/captions/proofname      = Pierādījums,
  locale/latvian/captions/glossaryname   =,
  locale/latvian/date ={\number\year.\thinspace gada%
      \space\number\day.\thinspace%
      \ifcase\month\or%
      janvārī\or februārī\or martā\or%
      aprīlī\or maijā\or jūnijā\or%
      jūlijā\or augustā\or septembrī\or%
      oktobrī\or novembrī\or decembrī\fi},
}}    
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Lithuanian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~lithuanian/.style = {
  locale/lithuanian/captions/refname        = Literatūra,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/abstractname   = Santrauka,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/bibname        = Literatūra,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/prefacename    = Pratarmė,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/chaptername    = Skyrius,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/appendixname   = Priedas,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/contentsname   = Turinys,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/listfigurename = Iliustracijų~sąrašas,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/listtablename  = Lentelių~sąrašas,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/indexname      = Rodyklė,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/figurename     = pav.,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/tablename      = lentelė,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/partname       = Dalis,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/pagename       = puslapis, 
  locale/lithuanian/captions/seename        = žiūrėk,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/alsoname       = taip~pat,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/enclname       = Įdėta,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/ccname         = Kopijos,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/headtoname     = Kam,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/proofname      = Įrodymas,
  locale/lithuanian/captions/glossaryname   = Terminų~žodynas,
  locale/lithuanian/date ={\number\year\space m.\space\ifcase\month\or
      sausio\or
      vasario\or
      kovo\or
      balandžio\or
      gegužės\or
      birželio\or
      liepos\or
      rugpjūčio\or
      rugsėjo\or
      spalio\or
      lapkričio\or
      gruodžio\fi
      \space\number\day\space d.
      },
}}    
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Lsorbian}
% See also usorbian for Upper Sorbian.
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~lsorbian/.style = {
  locale/lsorbian/captions/refname        = Referency,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/abstractname   = Abstrakt,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/bibname        = Literatura,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/prefacename    = Zawod,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/chaptername    = Kapitl,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/appendixname   = Dodawki,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/contentsname   = Wopśimjeśe,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/listfigurename = Zapis~wobrazow,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/listtablename  = Zapis~tabulkow,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/indexname      = Indeks,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/figurename     = Wobraz,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/tablename      = Tabulka,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/partname       = Źěl,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/pagename       = Strona , 
  locale/lsorbian/captions/seename        = gl.,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/alsoname       = gl.~teke,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/enclname       = Pśiłoga,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/ccname         = CC,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/headtoname     = Komu,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/proofname      = Proof,
  locale/lsorbian/captions/glossaryname   = Glossary,
  locale/lsorbian/date ={
    \number\day.~\ifcase\month\or
    januara\or februara\or měrca\or apryla\or maja\or
    junija\or julija\or awgusta\or septembra\or oktobra\or
    nowembra\or decembra\fi
    \space \number\year},
}}    
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \section{Magyar (Hungarian)}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~magyar/.style = {
  locale/magyar/captions/refname        = Hivatkozások ,
  locale/magyar/captions/abstractname   = Kivonat,
  locale/magyar/captions/bibname        = Irodalomjegyzék,
  locale/magyar/captions/prefacename    = Előszó,
  locale/magyar/captions/chaptername    = fejezet,
  locale/magyar/captions/appendixname   = Függelék,
  locale/magyar/captions/contentsname   = Tartalomjegyzék,
  locale/magyar/captions/listfigurename = Ábrák~jegyzéke,
  locale/magyar/captions/listtablename  = Táblázatok~jegyzéke,
  locale/magyar/captions/indexname      = Tárgymutató,
  locale/magyar/captions/figurename     = ábra,
  locale/magyar/captions/tablename      = táblázat,
  locale/magyar/captions/partname       = rész,
  locale/magyar/captions/pagename       = oldal, 
  locale/magyar/captions/seename        = lásd,
  locale/magyar/captions/alsoname       = lásd~még,
  locale/magyar/captions/enclname       = Melléklet,
  locale/magyar/captions/ccname         = Körlevél–címzettek,
  locale/magyar/captions/headtoname     = Címzett,
  locale/magyar/captions/proofname      = Bizonyítás,
  locale/magyar/captions/glossaryname   = Szójegyzék,
  locale/magyar/date = 
    {
      \number\year.\nobreakspace\ifcase\month\or
      január\or február\or március\or
      április\or május\or június\or
      július\or augusztus\or szeptember\or
      október\or november\or december\fi
    \space\number\day
    },
}}   
\cxset{locale~Magyar/.alias = locale~magyar,
       locale~Hungarian/.alias = locale~magyar} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Marathi}
%  
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~marathi/.style = {
  locale/marathi/captions/refname        = संदर्भ ,
  locale/marathi/captions/abstractname   = सारांश,
  locale/marathi/captions/bibname        = संदर्भ~ग्रंथांची~यादी,
  locale/marathi/captions/prefacename    = प्रस्तावना,
  locale/marathi/captions/chaptername    = प्रकरण,
  locale/marathi/captions/appendixname   = परिशिष्ट,
  locale/marathi/captions/contentsname   = अनुक्रमणिका,
  locale/marathi/captions/listfigurename = आकृत्यांची~यादी ,
  locale/marathi/captions/listtablename  = कॊष्टकांची~यादी,
  locale/marathi/captions/indexname      = सूची,
  locale/marathi/captions/figurename     = आक्रुती ,
  locale/marathi/captions/tablename      = कोष्टक,
  locale/marathi/captions/partname       = भाग,
  locale/marathi/captions/pagename       = पान, 
  locale/marathi/captions/seename        = पहा,
  locale/marathi/captions/alsoname       = हे~सुध्दा~पहा ,
  locale/marathi/captions/enclname       = समाविष्ट,
  locale/marathi/captions/ccname         = सि.सि.,
  locale/marathi/captions/headtoname     = प्रति,
  locale/marathi/captions/proofname      = सिद्धता,
  locale/marathi/captions/glossaryname   = स्पष्टीकरणांची~यादी,
  locale/marathi/date ={{\panunicode
     \number\day\space
      \ifcase\month\or
       जानेवारी\or
       फेब्रुवारी\or
       मार्च\or
       एप्रिल\or
       मे\or
       जून\or
       जुलै\or
       ऑगस्ट\or
       सप्टेंबर\or
       ऑक्टोबर\or
       नोव्हेंबर\or
       डिसेंबर\fi
     \space\number\year
    }},
}}  
\cxset{locale~Marathi/.alias=locale~marathi} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \newfontfamily\marathifont{NotoSansDevanagariUI-Regular.ttf}
% \begingroup
% \let\panunicode\marathifont
% \CaptionsList{Marathi}
% \endgroup
% \section{Nko}
% The script is RTL, it needs to be fixed for LuaLaTeX
%    \begin{macrocode}
\RequirePackage{nkonumbers}
\cxset{locale~nko/.style = {
  locale/nko/captions/refname        = संदर्भ,
  locale/nko/captions/abstractname   = सारांश,
  locale/nko/captions/bibname        = संदर्भ~ग्रंथांची~यादी,
  locale/nko/captions/prefacename    = प्रस्तावना,
  locale/nko/captions/chaptername    = {{\textdir TRT ߛߌ߰ߘߊ }},
  locale/nko/captions/appendixname   = परिशिष्ट,
  locale/nko/captions/contentsname   = {{ \textdir TRT ߞߣߐߘߐ }},
  locale/nko/captions/listfigurename = आकृत्यांची~यादी,
  locale/nko/captions/listtablename  = कॊष्टकांची~यादी,
  locale/nko/captions/indexname      = सूची,
  locale/nko/captions/figurename     = आक्रुती,
  locale/nko/captions/tablename      = कोष्टक,
  locale/nko/captions/partname       = भाग,
  locale/nko/captions/pagename       = पान, 
  locale/nko/captions/seename        = पहा,
  locale/nko/captions/alsoname       = हे~सुध्दा~पहा,
  locale/nko/captions/enclname       = समाविष्ट,
  locale/nko/captions/ccname         = सि.सि.,
  locale/nko/captions/headtoname     = प्रति ,
  locale/nko/captions/proofname      = सिद्धता,
  locale/nko/captions/glossaryname   = स्पष्टीकरणांची~यादी,
  locale/nko/date ={{\panunicode\textdir TRT 
  %FIX FOR NKO NUMBERS
    \nkonumber{\year}\space
    \ifcase\month
    \or ߓߌ߲ߠߊߥߎߟߋ߲%
    \or ߞߏ߲ߞߏߜߍ%
    \or ߕߙߊߓߊ%
    \or ߞߏ߲ߞߏߘߌ߬ߓߌ%
    \or ߘߓߊ߬ߕߊ%
    \or ߥߊ߬ߛߌߥߊ߬ߙߊ%
    \or ߞߊ߬ߙߌߝߐ߭%
    \or ߘߓߊ߬ߓߌߟߊ%
    \or ߕߎߟߊߝߌ߲%
    \or ߞߏ߲ߓߌߕߌ߮%
    \or ߣߍߣߍߓߊ%
    \or ߞߏ߬ߟߌ߲߬ߞߏߟߌ߲\fi
    \space ߕߟߋ߬
    \space\nkonumber{\day}
    }},
}}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Norwegian (Norsk)}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~norsk/.style = {
  locale/norsk/captions/refname        = Referanser,
  locale/norsk/captions/abstractname   = Sammendrag,
  locale/norsk/captions/bibname        = Bibliografi,
  locale/norsk/captions/prefacename    = Forord,
  locale/norsk/captions/chaptername    = Kapittel,
  locale/norsk/captions/appendixname   = Tillegg,
  locale/norsk/captions/contentsname   = Innhold,
  locale/norsk/captions/listfigurename = Figurer,
  locale/norsk/captions/listtablename  = Tabeller,
  locale/norsk/captions/indexname      = Register,
  locale/norsk/captions/figurename     = Figur,
  locale/norsk/captions/tablename      = Tabell,
  locale/norsk/captions/partname       = Del,
  locale/norsk/captions/pagename       = Side, 
  locale/norsk/captions/seename        = Se,
  locale/norsk/captions/alsoname       = Se~også,
  locale/norsk/captions/enclname       = Vedlegg,
  locale/norsk/captions/ccname         = Kopi~sendt,
  locale/norsk/captions/headtoname     = Til,
  locale/norsk/captions/proofname      = Bevis,
  locale/norsk/captions/glossaryname   = Ordliste,
  locale/norsk/date                    =
    {
      \number\day.~
      \ifcase\month
        \or januar
        \or februar
        \or mars
        \or april
        \or mai
        \or juni
        \or juli
        \or august
        \or september
        \or oktober
        \or november
        \or desember
     \fi
     \space\number\year
    },
}} 
\cxset{locale~Norsk/.alias = locale~norsk,
       locale~Norwegian/.alias = locale~norsk} 
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \CaptionsList{Norsk}
% \section{Piedmontese}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~piedmontese/.style = {
  locale/piedmontese/captions/refname        = Riferiment,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/abstractname   = Somari,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/bibname        = Bibliografìa,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/prefacename    = Prefassion,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/chaptername    = Kapittel,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/appendixname   = Gionta,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/contentsname   = Innhald,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/listfigurename = Lista~dle~figure ,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/listtablename  = Lista~dle~tabele,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/indexname      = Tàula~analìtica,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/tablename      = Tabela,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/partname       = Part,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/pagename       = Pàgina, 
  locale/piedmontese/captions/seename        = vëd,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/alsoname       = vëd~anche,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/enclname       = Gionta/e,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/ccname         = Con~còpia~a,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/headtoname     = Për,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/proofname      = Dimostrassion,
  locale/piedmontese/captions/glossaryname   = Glossari,
  locale/piedmontese/date ={
  	\number\day\space\ifcase\month\or
      ëd~gené\or ëd~fevré\or ëd~mars\or d'avril\or ëd~maj\or ëd~giugn\or
      ëd~luj\or d'agost\or dë~stèmber\or d'otóber\or ëd~novèmber\or dë~dzèmber%
      \fi\space dal\space\number\year
  },
}}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{piedmontese}
% \section{Occitan}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~occitan/.style = {
  locale/occitan/captions/refname        = Referéncias,
  locale/occitan/captions/abstractname   = Resumit,
  locale/occitan/captions/bibname        = Bibliografia,
  locale/occitan/captions/prefacename    = Prefaci,
  locale/occitan/captions/chaptername    = Capítol,
  locale/occitan/captions/appendixname   = Annèx,
  locale/occitan/captions/contentsname   = Ensenhador,
  locale/occitan/captions/listfigurename = Taula~de~las~figuras,
  locale/occitan/captions/listtablename  = Taula~dels~tablèus,
  locale/occitan/captions/indexname      = Indèx,
  locale/occitan/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/occitan/captions/tablename      = Tablèu,
  locale/occitan/captions/partname       = Partida,
  locale/occitan/captions/pagename       = Pagina, 
  locale/occitan/captions/seename        = vejatz,
  locale/occitan/captions/alsoname       = vejatz~tanben,
  locale/occitan/captions/enclname       = Pèça~junta,
  locale/occitan/captions/ccname         = còpia~a,
  locale/occitan/captions/headtoname     = A,
  locale/occitan/captions/proofname      = Demostracion,
  locale/occitan/captions/glossaryname   = Glossari,
  locale/occitan/date ={
  {\def\occitanmonth{\ifcase\month\or
      de~genièr\or
      de~febrièr\or
      de~març\or
      d'abril\or
      de~mai\or
      de~junh\or
      de~julhet\or
      d'agost\or
      de~setembre\or
      d'octobre\or
      de~novembre\or
      de~decembre\fi
   }
   \def\occitanday{\ifcase\day\or
      1èr\else% primièr
      \number\day\fi% all other numbers
   }
   \occitanday\space \occitanmonth\space de~\number\year
   }},
}} 
\cxset{locale~Occitan/.alias = locale~occitan}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{Occitan}

% \section{Polish}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~polish/.style = {
  locale/polish/captions/refname = Literatura,
  locale/polish/captions/abstractname   =Streszczenie ,
  locale/polish/captions/bibname        = Bibliografia,
  locale/polish/captions/prefacename    = Przedmowa,
  locale/polish/captions/chaptername    = Rozdział,
  locale/polish/captions/appendixname   = Dodatek,
  locale/polish/captions/contentsname   = Spis treści,
  locale/polish/captions/listfigurename = Spis rysunków,
  locale/polish/captions/listtablename  = Spis tabel,
  locale/polish/captions/indexname      = Indeks,
  locale/polish/captions/figurename     = Rysunek,
  locale/polish/captions/tablename      = Tabela,
  locale/polish/captions/partname       = Część,
  locale/polish/captions/pagename       = Strona, 
  locale/polish/captions/seename        = Zobacz,
  locale/polish/captions/alsoname       = Zobacz też,
  locale/polish/captions/enclname       = Załącznik,
  locale/polish/captions/ccname         = Kopie:,
  locale/polish/captions/headtoname     = Do,
  locale/polish/captions/proofname      = Dowód ,
  locale/polish/captions/glossaryname   = Glossary, % no ranslation
  locale/polish/date ={\number\day\space\ifcase\month\or
      stycznia\or lutego\or marca\or kwietnia\or maja\or czerwca\or
      lipca\or sierpnia\or września\or października\or
      listopada\or grudnia\fi\space
      \number\year},
}}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Portuges}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~portuges/.style = {
  locale/portuges/captions/refname        = Referências,
  locale/portuges/captions/abstractname   = Resumo,
  locale/portuges/captions/bibname        = Bibliografia,
  locale/portuges/captions/prefacename    = Prefácio,
  locale/portuges/captions/chaptername    = Capítulo,
  locale/portuges/captions/appendixname   = Apêndice,
  locale/portuges/captions/contentsname   = Conteúdo,
  locale/portuges/captions/listfigurename = Lista~de~Figuras,
  locale/portuges/captions/listtablename  = Lista~de~Tabelas,
  locale/portuges/captions/indexname      = Índice,
  locale/portuges/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/portuges/captions/tablename      = Tabela,
  locale/portuges/captions/partname       = Parte,
  locale/portuges/captions/pagename       = Página, 
  locale/portuges/captions/seename        = ver,
  locale/portuges/captions/alsoname       = ver~também,
  locale/portuges/captions/enclname       = Anexo,
  locale/portuges/captions/ccname         = Com~cópia~a,
  locale/portuges/captions/headtoname     = Para,
  locale/portuges/captions/proofname      = Dowód,
  locale/portuges/captions/glossaryname   = Glossário,
  locale/portuges/date = 
    {
      \number\day\space de\space\ifcase\month\or
      Janeiro\or Fevereiro\or Março\or Abril\or Maio\or Junho\or
      Julho\or Agosto\or Setembro\or Outubro\or Novembro\or Dezembro\fi
      \space de\space\number\year
    },
  }
}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Romanian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~romanian/.style = {
  locale/romanian/captions/refname        = Bibliografie,
  locale/romanian/captions/abstractname   = Rezumat,
  locale/romanian/captions/bibname        = Bibliografie,
  locale/romanian/captions/prefacename    = Prefață,
  locale/romanian/captions/chaptername    = Capitolul,
  locale/romanian/captions/appendixname   = Anexa,
  locale/romanian/captions/contentsname   = Cuprins,
  locale/romanian/captions/listfigurename = Listă~de~figuri,
  locale/romanian/captions/listtablename  = Listă~de~tabele,
  locale/romanian/captions/indexname      = Glosar,
  locale/romanian/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/romanian/captions/tablename      = Tabela,
  locale/romanian/captions/partname       = Partea,
  locale/romanian/captions/pagename       = Pagina, 
  locale/romanian/captions/seename        = Vezi,
  locale/romanian/captions/alsoname       = Vezi~de~asemenea,
  locale/romanian/captions/enclname       = Anexă,
  locale/romanian/captions/ccname         = Copie,
  locale/romanian/captions/headtoname     = Pentru,
  locale/romanian/captions/proofname      = Demonstrație ,
  locale/romanian/captions/glossaryname   = Glosar,
  locale/romanian/date ={\number\day\space\ifcase\month\or
    ianuarie\or februarie\or martie\or aprilie\or mai\or
    iunie\or iulie\or august\or septembrie\or octombrie\or
    noiembrie\or decembrie\fi
    \space \number\year},
}}  
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Romansh}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~romansh/.style = {
  locale/romansh/captions/refname        = Bibliografia,
  locale/romansh/captions/abstractname   = Recapitulaziun,
  locale/romansh/captions/bibname        = Index~bibliografic,
  locale/romansh/captions/prefacename    = Prefaziun,
  locale/romansh/captions/chaptername    = Chapitel,
  locale/romansh/captions/appendixname   = Appendix,
  locale/romansh/captions/contentsname   = Tavla~dal~cuntegn,
  locale/romansh/captions/listfigurename = Tavla~da~las~figuras,
  locale/romansh/captions/listtablename  = Tavla~da~las~tabellas,
  locale/romansh/captions/indexname      = Register~da~materias,
  locale/romansh/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/romansh/captions/tablename      = Tabella,
  locale/romansh/captions/partname       = Part,
  locale/romansh/captions/pagename       = pagina, 
  locale/romansh/captions/seename        = vesair,
  locale/romansh/captions/alsoname       = vesair~era,
  locale/romansh/captions/enclname       = Agiunta(s),
  locale/romansh/captions/ccname         = Copia~a,
  locale/romansh/captions/headtoname     = A,
  locale/romansh/captions/proofname      = Demonstraziun,
  locale/romansh/captions/glossaryname   = Glossari,
  locale/romansh/date ={{\ifcase\day\or1.\else ils\space\number\day\fi\space da\space 
    \ifcase\month\or
    schaner\or favrer\or mars\or avrigl\or matg\or zercladur\or
    fanadur\or avust\or settember\or october\or november\or
    december\fi\space \number\year}},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Sami Languages}
% Sami languages (/ˈsɑːmi/[5]) is a group of Uralic languages spoken by the Sami people in Northern Europe (in parts of northern Finland, Norway, Sweden and extreme northwestern Russia). There are, depending on the nature and terms of division, ten or more Sami languages. Several names are used for the Sami languages: Saami, Sámi, Saame, Samic, Saamic, as well as the exonyms Lappish and Lappic. The last two, along with the term Lapp, are now often considered pejorative
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~samin/.style = {
  locale/samin/captions/refname        = Čujuhusat,
  locale/samin/captions/abstractname   = Čoahkkáigeassu,
  locale/samin/captions/bibname        = Girjjálašvuohta,
  locale/samin/captions/prefacename    = Ovdasátni,
  locale/samin/captions/chaptername    = Kapihttal,
  locale/samin/captions/appendixname   = Čuovus,
  locale/samin/captions/contentsname   = Sisdoallu,
  locale/samin/captions/listfigurename = Govvosat,
  locale/samin/captions/listtablename  = Tabeallat ,
  locale/samin/captions/indexname      = Registtar,
  locale/samin/captions/figurename     = Govus,
  locale/samin/captions/tablename      = Tabealla,
  locale/samin/captions/partname       = Oassi,
  locale/samin/captions/pagename       = Siidu, 
  locale/samin/captions/seename        = geahča,
  locale/samin/captions/alsoname       = geahčageahča~maiddái ,
  locale/samin/captions/enclname       = Mielddus,
  locale/samin/captions/ccname         = Kopia sáddejuvvon,   
  locale/samin/captions/headtoname     = Vuostáiváldi,
  locale/samin/captions/proofname      = Dowód ,
  locale/samin/captions/glossaryname   = Sátnelistu,
  locale/samin/date ={\ifcase\month\or
    ođđajagemánu\or
    guovvamánu\or
    njukčamánu\or
    cuoŋománu\or
    miessemánu\or
    geassemánu\or
    suoidnemánu\or
    borgemánu\or
    čakčamánu\or
    golggotmánu\or
    skábmamánu\or
    juovlamánu\fi
    \space\number\day.\space b.\space\number\year},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \section{Scottish}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~scottish/.style = {
  locale/scottish/captions/refname = Iomraidh,
  locale/scottish/captions/abstractname   = Brìgh ,
  locale/scottish/captions/bibname        = Leabhraichean,
  locale/scottish/captions/prefacename    = Preface, % needs translation
  locale/scottish/captions/chaptername    = Caibideil,
  locale/scottish/captions/appendixname   = Ath-sgr`ıobhadh,
  locale/scottish/captions/contentsname   = Clàr-obrach,
  locale/scottish/captions/listfigurename = Liosta~Dhealbh,
  locale/scottish/captions/listtablename  = Liosta~Chlàr,
  locale/scottish/captions/indexname      = Clàr-innse,
  locale/scottish/captions/figurename     = Dealbh ,
  locale/scottish/captions/tablename      = Clàr ,
  locale/scottish/captions/partname       = Cuid,
  locale/scottish/captions/pagename       = t.d., 
  locale/scottish/captions/seename        = see, % needs translation
  locale/scottish/captions/alsoname       = ,
  locale/scottish/captions/enclname       = a-staigh,
  locale/scottish/captions/ccname         = lethbhreac~gu,
  locale/scottish/captions/headtoname     = gu,
  locale/scottish/captions/proofname      = Proof,
  locale/scottish/captions/glossaryname   = Glossary,
  locale/scottish/date ={\number\day\space \ifcase\month\or
    am~Faoilteach\or an~Gearran\or am~Màrt\or an~Giblean\or
    an~Cèitean\or an~t-Òg mhios\or an~t-Iuchar\or
    Lùnasdal\or an~Sultuine\or an~Dàmhar\or
    an~t-Samhainn\or an~Dubhlachd\fi
    \space \number\year},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Serbian}
% Standard Serbian language uses both Cyrillic (ћирилица, ćirilica) and Latin script (latinica, латиница). Serbian is a rare example of synchronic digraphia, a situation where all literate members of a society have two interchangeable writing systems available to them. Media and publishers typically select one alphabet or another.
% The default is for latin script.
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~serbian/.style = {
  locale/serbian/captions/refname        = Bibliografija,
  locale/serbian/captions/abstractname   = Sažetak,
  locale/serbian/captions/bibname        = Literatura,
  locale/serbian/captions/prefacename    = Predgovor,
  locale/serbian/captions/chaptername    = Glava,
  locale/serbian/captions/appendixname   = Dodatak,
  locale/serbian/captions/contentsname   = Sadržaj,
  locale/serbian/captions/listfigurename = Spisak slika,
  locale/serbian/captions/listtablename  = Spisak tabela,
  locale/serbian/captions/indexname      = Registar,
  locale/serbian/captions/figurename     = Slika,
  locale/serbian/captions/tablename      = Tabela ,
  locale/serbian/captions/partname       = Deo,
  locale/serbian/captions/pagename       = Strana , 
  locale/serbian/captions/seename        = Vidi,
  locale/serbian/captions/alsoname       = Vidi takođe ,
  locale/serbian/captions/enclname       = Prilozi,
  locale/serbian/captions/ccname         = Kopije,
  locale/serbian/captions/headtoname     = Prima,
  locale/serbian/captions/proofname      = Dokaz,
  locale/serbian/captions/glossaryname   = Rečnik~nepoznatih~reči,
  locale/serbian/date ={\number\day .\space\ifcase\month\or
    januar\or februar\or mart\or april\or maj\or
    jun\or jul\or avgust\or septembar\or oktobar\or novembar\or
    decembar\fi \space \number\year.},
}} 
\cxset{locale~serbian~cyrillic/.style = {
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/refname        = Библиографија,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/abstractname   = Сажетак,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/bibname        = Литература,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/prefacename    = Предговор,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/chaptername    = Глава,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/appendixname   = Додатак,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/contentsname   = Садржај,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/listfigurename = Списак~слика,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/listtablename  = Списак табела,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/indexname      = Регистар,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/figurename     = Слика,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/tablename      = Табела,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/partname       = Део,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/pagename       = Страна, 
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/seename        = Види,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/alsoname       = Види такође,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/enclname       = Прилози,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/ccname         = Копије,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/headtoname     = Прима,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/proofname      = Доказ,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/captions/glossaryname   = Речник непознатих речи,
  locale/serbian~cyrillic/date ={\number\day .\space\ifcase\month\or
    јануар\or фебруар\or март\or април\or мај\or
    јун\or јул\or август\or септембар\or октобар\or новембар\or
    децембар\fi \space \number\year.},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Slovak}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~slovak/.style = {
  locale/slovak/captions/refname        = Referencie,
  locale/slovak/captions/abstractname   = Abstrakt,
  locale/slovak/captions/bibname        = Literatúra,
  locale/slovak/captions/prefacename    = Úvod,
  locale/slovak/captions/chaptername    = Kapitola,
  locale/slovak/captions/appendixname   = Dodatok,
  locale/slovak/captions/contentsname   = Obsah,
  locale/slovak/captions/listfigurename = Zoznam~obrázkov ,
  locale/slovak/captions/listtablename  = Zoznam~tabuliek,
  locale/slovak/captions/indexname      = Index,
  locale/slovak/captions/figurename     = Obrázok,
  locale/slovak/captions/tablename      = Tabuľka,
  locale/slovak/captions/partname       = Časť,
  locale/slovak/captions/pagename       = Strana, 
  locale/slovak/captions/seename        = viď,
  locale/slovak/captions/alsoname       = viď~tiež,
  locale/slovak/captions/enclname       = Prílohy,
  locale/slovak/captions/ccname         = cc.,
  locale/slovak/captions/headtoname     = Pre,
  locale/slovak/captions/proofname      = Dôkaz,
  locale/slovak/captions/glossaryname   = Slovník,
  locale/slovak/date ={\number\day.~\ifcase\month\or
    januára\or februára\or marca\or apríla\or mája\or
    júna\or júla\or augusta\or septembra\or októbra\or
    novembra\or decembra\fi
    \space \number\year},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Slovenian}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~slovenian/.style = {
  locale/slovenian/captions/refname        = Literatura,
  locale/slovenian/captions/abstractname   = Povzetek,
  locale/slovenian/captions/bibname        = Literatura,
  locale/slovenian/captions/prefacename    = Predgovor,
  locale/slovenian/captions/chaptername    = Poglavje,
  locale/slovenian/captions/appendixname   = Dodatek,
  locale/slovenian/captions/contentsname   = Kazalo,
  locale/slovenian/captions/listfigurename = Slike,
  locale/slovenian/captions/listtablename  = Tabele,
  locale/slovenian/captions/indexname      = Stvarno~kazalo,
  locale/slovenian/captions/figurename     = Slika,
  locale/slovenian/captions/tablename      = Tabela,
  locale/slovenian/captions/partname       = Del,
  locale/slovenian/captions/pagename       = Stran, 
  locale/slovenian/captions/seename        = glej,
  locale/slovenian/captions/alsoname       = glej~tudi,
  locale/slovenian/captions/enclname       = Priloge,
  locale/slovenian/captions/ccname         = Kopije,
  locale/slovenian/captions/headtoname     = Prejme,
  locale/slovenian/captions/proofname      = Dokaz,
  locale/slovenian/captions/glossaryname   = Slovar,
  locale/slovenian/date ={\number\day.~\ifcase\month\or
    januar\or februar\or marec\or april\or maj\or junij\or
    julij\or avgust\or september\or oktober\or november\or december\fi
    \space \number\year},
}} 
% Alphabet consists of 25 lower and 25 upper letters
\cs_new:Npn \int_to_Alph_slovenian:n #1
 {
 \int_to_symbols:nnn {#1} { 25 }
 {
  { 1 } { A }
  { 2 } { B }
  { 3 } { C }
  { 4 } { Č }
  { 5 } { D }
  { 6 } { E }
  { 7 } { F }
  { 8 } { G }
  { 9 } { H }
  { 10 } { I }
  { 11 } { J }
  { 12 } { K }
  { 13 } { L }
  { 14 } { M }
  { 15 } { N }
  { 16 } { O }
  { 17 } { P }
  { 18 } { R }
  { 19 } { S }
  { 20 } { Š }
  { 21 } { T }
  { 22 } { U }
  { 23 } { V }
  { 24 } { Z }
  { 25 } { Ž }
 }
}

\cs_new:Npn \int_to_alph_slovenian:n #1
 {
 \int_to_symbols:nnn {#1} { 25 }
 {
  { 1 } { a }
  { 2 } { b }
  { 3 } { c }
  { 4 } { č }
  { 5 } { d }
  { 6 } { e }
  { 7 } { f }
  { 8 } { g }
  { 9 } { h }
  { 10 } { i }
  { 11 } { j }
  { 12 } { k }
  { 13 } { l }
  { 14 } { m }
  { 15 } { n }
  { 16 } { o }
  { 17 } { p }
  { 18 } { r }
  { 19 } { s }
  { 20 } { š }
  { 21 } { t }
  { 22 } { u }
  { 23 } { v }
  { 24 } { z }
  { 25 } { ž }
 }
}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Spanish}
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~spanish/.style = {
  locale/spanish/captions/refname        = Referencias,
  locale/spanish/captions/abstractname   = Resumen,
  locale/spanish/captions/bibname        = Bibliografía,
  locale/spanish/captions/prefacename    = Prefacio,
  locale/spanish/captions/chaptername    = Capítulo,
  locale/spanish/captions/appendixname   = Apéndice,
  locale/spanish/captions/contentsname   = Índice~general,
  locale/spanish/captions/listfigurename = Índice~de~figuras,
  locale/spanish/captions/listtablename  = Índice~de~cuadros,
  locale/spanish/captions/indexname      = Índice~alfabético,
  locale/spanish/captions/figurename     = Figura,
  locale/spanish/captions/tablename      = Cuadro,
  locale/spanish/captions/partname       = Parte,
  locale/spanish/captions/pagename       = Página, 
  locale/spanish/captions/seename        = véase,
  locale/spanish/captions/alsoname       = véase~también,
  locale/spanish/captions/enclname       = Adjunto(s),
  locale/spanish/captions/ccname         = Copia~a,
  locale/spanish/captions/headtoname     = A,
  locale/spanish/captions/proofname      = Prueba,
  locale/spanish/captions/glossaryname   = Glosario,
  locale/spanish/date ={\number\day~de~\ifcase\month\or
    enero\or febrero\or marzo\or abril\or mayo\or junio\or
    julio\or agosto\or septiembre\or octubre\or noviembre\or
    diciembre\fi\space de~\number\year},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Swedish}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~swedish/.style = {
  locale/swedish/captions/refname        = Referenser,
  locale/swedish/captions/abstractname   = Sammanfattning,
  locale/swedish/captions/bibname        = Litteraturförteckning,
  locale/swedish/captions/prefacename    = Förord,
  locale/swedish/captions/chaptername    = Kapitel,
  locale/swedish/captions/appendixname   = Bilaga,
  locale/swedish/captions/contentsname   = Innehåll,
  locale/swedish/captions/listfigurename = Figurer,
  locale/swedish/captions/listtablename  = Tabeller,
  locale/swedish/captions/indexname      = Sakregister,
  locale/swedish/captions/figurename     = Figur,
  locale/swedish/captions/tablename      = Tabell,
  locale/swedish/captions/partname       = Del,
  locale/swedish/captions/pagename       = Sida, 
  locale/swedish/captions/seename        = se,
  locale/swedish/captions/alsoname       = se~även,
  locale/swedish/captions/enclname       = Bil.,
  locale/swedish/captions/ccname         = Kopia~för~kännedom,
  locale/swedish/captions/headtoname     = Till,
  locale/swedish/captions/proofname      = Bevis,
  locale/swedish/captions/glossaryname   = Ordlista,
  locale/swedish/date ={\number\day\space\ifcase\month\or
    januari\or februari\or mars\or april\or maj\or juni\or
    juli\or augusti\or september\or oktober\or november\or
    december\fi
    \space\number\year},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{swedish}
%
% \section{Tamil}
% 
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~tamil/.style = {
  locale/tamil/captions/refname = சாராம்சம்,
  locale/tamil/captions/abstractname = பிற்சேர்க்கை,
  locale/tamil/captions/bibname       = ,
  locale/tamil/captions/prefacename   = ,
  locale/tamil/captions/chaptername   = அத்தியாயம்,
  locale/tamil/captions/appendixname  = ,
  locale/tamil/captions/contentsname  = உள்ளே,
  locale/tamil/captions/listfigurename = படங்களின்~பட்டியல்,
  locale/tamil/captions/listtablename = அட்டவணை~பட்டியல்,
  locale/tamil/captions/indexname = சுட்டி,
  locale/tamil/captions/figurename  = படம்,
  locale/tamil/captions/tablename = அட்டவணை,
  locale/tamil/captions/partname = ,
  locale/tamil/captions/pagename = , 
  locale/tamil/captions/seename  = பார்க்க,
  locale/tamil/captions/alsoname = ,
  locale/tamil/captions/enclname = {},
  locale/tamil/captions/ccname = {},
  locale/tamil/captions/headtoname ={} ,
  locale/tamil/captions/proofname = ,
  locale/tamil/captions/glossaryname = ,
  locale/tamil/date ={\number\year\space\ifcase\month\or
     ஜனவரி\or
     பிப்ரவரி\or
     மார்ச்\or
    ஏப்ரல்\or
     மே\or
     ஜூன்\or
     ஜூலை\or
    ஆகஸ்ட்\or
     செப்டம்பர்\or
     அக்டோபர்\or
     நவம்பர்\or
     டிசம்பர்\fi
     \space\number\day},
}} 
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{tamil}
% \section{Telugu}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~telugu/.style = {
  locale/telugu/captions/refname = ఆధారాలు,
  locale/telugu/captions/abstractname = సారాంశం,
  locale/telugu/captions/bibname       = గ్రంథాల జాబితా,
  locale/telugu/captions/prefacename   = ముందుమాట,
  locale/telugu/captions/chaptername   = అధ్యాయము,
  locale/telugu/captions/appendixname  = అదనంగా,
  locale/telugu/captions/contentsname  = విషయాలు,
  locale/telugu/captions/listfigurename =ఆకృతుల జాబితా ,
  locale/telugu/captions/listtablename = పట్టికల జాబితా,
  locale/telugu/captions/indexname = విషయ సూచిక,
  locale/telugu/captions/figurename  = ఆకృతి,
  locale/telugu/captions/tablename = పట్టిక,
  locale/telugu/captions/partname = భాగం,
  locale/telugu/captions/pagename = పేజి, 
  locale/telugu/captions/seename  = చూడండి,
  locale/telugu/captions/alsoname = కూడా చూడండి,
  locale/telugu/captions/enclname = ఎంక్లోజర్*,
  locale/telugu/captions/ccname = సిసి,
  locale/telugu/captions/headtoname = కి,
  locale/telugu/captions/proofname = రుజువు,
  locale/telugu/captions/glossaryname = నిఘంటువు,
  locale/telugu/date ={{\panunicode 
  \def\telugu@month{
    \ifcase\month\or
         జనవరి\or
         ఫిబ్రవరి\or
         మార్చ్\or
         ఏప్రిల్\or
         మే\or
         జూన్\or
         జూలై\or
         ఆగస్ట్\or
         సెప్టెంబర్\or
         అక్తోబెర్\or
         నవంబర్\or
         డిసంబర్\fi}
   \telugu@month\space\number\day,\space\number\year}},
}}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{telugu}
% \section{Turkish}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~turkish/.style = {
  locale/turkish/captions/refname        = Kaynaklar,
  locale/turkish/captions/abstractname   = Özet,
  locale/turkish/captions/bibname        = Kaynakça,
  locale/turkish/captions/prefacename    = Önsöz,
  locale/turkish/captions/chaptername    = Bölüm,
  locale/turkish/captions/appendixname   = Ek,
  locale/turkish/captions/contentsname   = İçindekiler,
  locale/turkish/captions/listfigurename = Şekil Listesi,
  locale/turkish/captions/listtablename  = Tablo Listesi,
  locale/turkish/captions/indexname      = Dizin,
  locale/turkish/captions/figurename     = Şekil,
  locale/turkish/captions/tablename      = Tablo,
  locale/turkish/captions/partname       = Kısım,
  locale/turkish/captions/pagename       = Sayfa, 
  locale/turkish/captions/seename        = bkz.,
  locale/turkish/captions/alsoname       = ayrıca~bkz.,
  locale/turkish/captions/enclname       = İlişik,
  locale/turkish/captions/ccname         = Diğer~Alıcılar,
  locale/turkish/captions/headtoname     = Alıcı,
  locale/turkish/captions/proofname      = Kanıt,
  locale/turkish/captions/glossaryname   = Lügatçe,
  locale/turkish/date ={\number\day\space\ifcase\month\or
    Ocak\or Şubat\or Mart\or Nisan\or Mayıs\or Haziran\or
    Temmuz\or Ağustos\or Eylül\or Ekim\or Kasım\or
    Aralık\fi
    \space\number\year},
}}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Turkmen}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~turkmen/.style = {
  locale/turkmen/captions/refname        = Çeşmeler,
  locale/turkmen/captions/abstractname   = Gysgaça~manysy,
  locale/turkmen/captions/bibname        = Çeşmeler,
  locale/turkmen/captions/prefacename    = Sözbaşy,
  locale/turkmen/captions/chaptername    = Bap,
  locale/turkmen/captions/appendixname   = Goşmaça,
  locale/turkmen/captions/contentsname   = Mazmuny,
  locale/turkmen/captions/listfigurename = Suratlaryň~sanawy,
  locale/turkmen/captions/listtablename  = Tablisalaryň~sanawy,
  locale/turkmen/captions/indexname      = Indeks,
  locale/turkmen/captions/figurename     = Surat,
  locale/turkmen/captions/tablename      = Tablisa,
  locale/turkmen/captions/partname       = Bölüm,
  locale/turkmen/captions/pagename       = Sahypa, 
  locale/turkmen/captions/seename        = ser.,
  locale/turkmen/captions/alsoname       = şuňa-da~ser.,
  locale/turkmen/captions/enclname       = Goşmaça,
  locale/turkmen/captions/ccname         = Iberilenler,
  locale/turkmen/captions/headtoname     = Kime,
  locale/turkmen/captions/proofname      = Delil,
  locale/turkmen/captions/glossaryname   = Sözlük,
  locale/turkmen/date = {\number\day\space\ifcase\month\or
    Ýanwar\or Fewral\or Mart\or Aprel\or Maý\or Iýun\or
    Iýul\or Awgust\or Sentýabr\or Oktýabr\or Noýabr\or
    Dekabr\fi
    \space\number\year},
}}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{turkmen}
% \section{Ukrainian}
% Ukrainian	uk	uk	1058	422	1251
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~ukrainian/.style = {
  locale/ukrainian/captions/refname        = Література,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/abstractname   = Анотація,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/bibname        = Бібліоґрафія,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/prefacename    = Вступ,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/chaptername    = Розділ,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/appendixname   = Додаток,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/contentsname   = Зміст,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/listfigurename = Перелік~ілюстрацій,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/listtablename  = Перелік~таблиць,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/indexname      = Покажчик,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/figurename     = Рис.,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/tablename      = Табл.,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/partname       = Частина,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/pagename       = с., 
  locale/ukrainian/captions/seename        = див.,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/alsoname       = див.\ ~також,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/enclname       = вкладка,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/ccname         = копія,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/headtoname     = До,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/proofname      = Доведення,
  locale/ukrainian/captions/glossaryname   = Словник~термінів,
  locale/ukrainian/date ={\number\day\space\ifcase\month\or
    січня\or
    лютого\or
    березня\or
    квітня\or
    травня\or
    червня\or
    липня\or
    серпня\or
    вересня\or
    жовтня\or
    листопада\or
    грудня\fi
    \space\number\year\space р.},
}}
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \section{Usorbian}
% \label{sec:usorbian}
%
% The Sorbian languages (Upper Sorbian: Serbska rěč, Lower Sorbian: Serbska rěc) are two closely related, but only partially mutually intelligible, West Slavic languages spoken by the Sorbs, a West Slavic minority in the Lusatia region of eastern Germany. They are classified under the West Slavic branch of the Indo-European languages and are therefore closely related to the other two West Slavic subgroups: Lechitic and Czech–Slovak.\footnote{Online article by Hermut Feska in:\href{https://web.archive.org/web/20120212191519/http://www.uni-leipzig.de/~sorb/seiten/eng/03/language.html}{About Sorbian Language}.}
%Historically the languages have also been known as Wendish (named after the Wends, earliest Slavic people in modern Poland and Germany) or Lusatian. Their collective ISO 639-2 code is |wen|.
%
%There are two literary languages: Upper Sorbian (hornjoserbsce), spoken by about 40,000 people in Saxony, and Lower Sorbian (dolnoserbski) spoken by about 10,000 people in Brandenburg. The area where the two languages are spoken is known as Lusatia (Łužica in Upper Sorbian, Łužyca in Lower Sorbian, or Lausitz in German).
%
%
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~usorbian/.style = {
  locale/usorbian/captions/refname        = Referency ,
  locale/usorbian/captions/abstractname   = Abstrakt,
  locale/usorbian/captions/bibname        = Literatura ,
  locale/usorbian/captions/prefacename    = Zawod,
  locale/usorbian/captions/chaptername    = Kapitl,
  locale/usorbian/captions/appendixname   = Dodawki,
  locale/usorbian/captions/contentsname   = Wobsah,
  locale/usorbian/captions/listfigurename = Zapis~wobrazow,
  locale/usorbian/captions/listtablename  = Zapis~tabulkow,
  locale/usorbian/captions/indexname      = Indeks,
  locale/usorbian/captions/figurename     = Wobraz,
  locale/usorbian/captions/tablename      = Tabulka,
  locale/usorbian/captions/partname       = Dźěl,
  locale/usorbian/captions/pagename       = Strona, 
  locale/usorbian/captions/seename        = hl.,
  locale/usorbian/captions/alsoname       = hl.~tež,
  locale/usorbian/captions/enclname       = Přłoha,
  locale/usorbian/captions/ccname         = CC,
  locale/usorbian/captions/headtoname     = Komu ,
  locale/usorbian/captions/proofname      = Proof,
  locale/usorbian/captions/glossaryname   = Glossary,
  locale/usorbian/date                    = 
    {
      \number\day.\space
      \ifcase\month
        \or januara
        \or februara
        \or měrca
        \or apryla
        \or meje
        \or junija
        \or julija
        \or awgusta
        \or septembra
        \or oktobra
        \or nowembra
        \or decembra
      \fi
      \space\number\year
    },
}}
\cxset{locale~Usorbian/.alias = locale~usorbian}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \CaptionsList{Usorbian}
%
% \section{hangul}
%    \begin{macrocode}

\cxset{locale~hangul/.style = {
  locale/hangul/captions/refname        = Tài~liệu,
  locale/hangul/captions/abstractname   = Tóm~tắt~nội~dung,
  locale/hangul/captions/bibname        = Tài~liệu~tham~khảo,
  locale/hangul/captions/prefacename    = Lời~nói~đầu,
  locale/hangul/captions/chaptername    = Chương,
  locale/hangul/captions/appendixname   = Phụ~lục,
  locale/hangul/captions/contentsname   = Mục~lục,
  locale/hangul/captions/listfigurename = Danh~sách~hình~vẽ ,
  locale/hangul/captions/listtablename  = Danh~sách~bảng,
  locale/hangul/captions/indexname      = Chỉ~mục,
  locale/hangul/captions/figurename     = Hình,
  locale/hangul/captions/tablename      = Bảng,
  locale/hangul/captions/partname       = Phần ,
  locale/hangul/captions/pagename       = Trang, 
  locale/hangul/captions/seename        = Xem ,
  locale/hangul/captions/alsoname       = Xem~thêm,
  locale/hangul/captions/enclname       = Kèm~theo,
  locale/hangul/captions/ccname         = Cùng~gửi,
  locale/hangul/captions/headtoname     = Gửi,
  locale/hangul/captions/proofname      = Chứng~minh,
  locale/hangul/captions/glossaryname   = Từ~điển~chú~giải,
  locale/hangul/date ={Ngày\space\number\day\space
    tháng\space\number\month\space
    năm\space\number\year},
}}
\cxset{locale~hangul/.alias = locale~hangul}
%    \end{macrocode}
%
% \CaptionsList{hangul}
%
% \section{Welsh}
% for dates and times see \href{http://beta.swansea.gov.uk/media/8594/Welsh-language-service-handy-guide---Welsh-dates-and-times/pdf/Welsh_Language_Service_Handy_Guide_-_Welsh_dates_and_times.pdf}{swansea}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\newif\ifwelsh@first

\def\welsh@article#1{
  \welsh@firsttrue 
  y
  \expandafter\welsh@article@do#1
 }

\def\welsh@article@do#1{
  \ifwelsh@first\welsh@isvowel#1
  \ifwelsh@vowel 
     r\space
     \welsh@vowelfalse
   \else
   \space
   \fi#1
   \welsh@firstfalse
   \fi
 }

\newif\ifwelsh@vowel
\def\welsh@isvowel#1{
   \ifx#1a\welsh@voweltrue
   \else
   \ifx#1u
    \welsh@voweltrue
    \else
    \ifx#1w\welsh@voweltrue
    \fi\fi\fi}% FIXME Add the other vowels, just for good measure

\def\welsh@ordinal@long#1{%
  \if_case:w #1
    \or: cyntaf
    \or: ail
    \or: trydydd
    \or: pedwerydd
    \or: pumed
    \or: chweched
    \or: seithfed
    \or: wythfed
    \or: nawfed
    \or: degfed
    \or: unfed~ar~ddeg
    \or: deuddegfed
    \or: trydydd~ar~ddeg
    \or: pedwerydd~ar~ddeg
    \or: pymthegfed
    \or: unfed~ar~bymtheg
    \or: ail~ar~bymtheg
    \or: deunawfed
    \or: pedwerydd~ar~bymtheg
    \or: ugeinfed
    \else:
     \exp_after:wN \welsh@ordinalplusxx@long#1
    \fi:
  }

\def\welsh@ordinalplusxx@long#1{%
  \let\dday=#1\advance\dday~by~-20\relax\welsh@ordinal@long\dday\space ar~hugain%
}

\cxset{welsh~date~format/.is~choice,
       welsh~date~format/standard/.code = 
       \def\today{\expandafter\welsh@article\welsh@ordinal@long\day\space o\space
       \if_case:w \month
       \or: Ionawr
       \or: Chwefror
       \or: Fawrth
       \or: Ebrill
       \or: Fai
       \or: Fehefin
       \or: Orffenaf
       \or: Awst
       \or: Fedi
       \or: Hydref
       \or: Dachwedd
       \or: Ragfyr
      \fi:
      \space\number\year},
     welsh~date~format/formal/.code    = \def\today{\ifcase\day\or 1af\or 2ail\or 3ydd\or 4ydd\or 5ed\or 6ed%
    \or 7fed\or 8fed\or 9fed\or 10fed\or 11eg\or 12fed\or 13eg\or
    14eg\or 15fed\or 16eg\or 17eg\or 18fed\or 19eg\or
    20fed\else\number\day ain\fi\space\ifcase\month\or
    Ionawr\or Chwefror\or Mawrth\or Ebrill\or
    Mai\or Mehefin\or Gorffennaf\or Awst\or
    Medi\or Hydref\or Tachwedd\or Rhagfyr\fi%
    \space\number\year},
    welsh~date~format=formal,
  }
\cxset{locale~welsh/.style = {
  locale/welsh/captions/refname        = Cyfeiriadau,
  locale/welsh/captions/abstractname   = Crynodeb,
  locale/welsh/captions/bibname        = Llyfryddiaeth,
  locale/welsh/captions/prefacename    = Rhagair,
  locale/welsh/captions/chaptername    = Pennod,
  locale/welsh/captions/appendixname   = Atodiad,
  locale/welsh/captions/contentsname   = Cynnwys,
  locale/welsh/captions/listfigurename = Rhestr~Ddarluniau,
  locale/welsh/captions/listtablename  = Rhestr~Dablau,
  locale/welsh/captions/indexname      = Mynegai,
  locale/welsh/captions/figurename     = Darlun,
  locale/welsh/captions/tablename      = Taflen,
  locale/welsh/captions/partname       = Rhan,
  locale/welsh/captions/pagename       = tudalen, 
  locale/welsh/captions/seename        = gweler,
  locale/welsh/captions/alsoname       = gweler~hefyd,
  locale/welsh/captions/enclname       = amgaeëdig,
  locale/welsh/captions/ccname         = copïau,
  locale/welsh/captions/headtoname     = At,
  locale/welsh/captions/proofname      = Prawf,
  locale/welsh/captions/glossaryname   = Rhestr~termau,
  welsh~date~format=standard,
}}
\cxset{locale~Welsh/.alias=locale~welsh}
%    \end{macrocode}
% \section{Hangul}
%    \begin{macrocode}
\cxset{locale~hangul/.style = {
  locale/hangul/captions/refname        = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/abstractname   = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/bibname        = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/prefacename    = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/chaptername    = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/appendixname   = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/contentsname   = 차~례,
  locale/hangul/captions/listfigurename = 그림~차례,
  locale/hangul/captions/listtablename  = 표~차례,
  locale/hangul/captions/indexname      = 찾아보기,
  locale/hangul/captions/figurename     = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/tablename      = 표,
  locale/hangul/captions/partname       = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/pagename       = , 
  locale/hangul/captions/seename        = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/alsoname       = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/enclname       = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/ccname         = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/headtoname     = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/proofname      = ,
  locale/hangul/captions/glossaryname   = ,
  locale/hangul/date ={Ngày\space\number\day\space
    tháng\space\number\month\space
    năm\space\number\year},
}}
%    \end{macrocode}
%  \CaptionsList{hangul}    
%
% \CaptionsList{Welsh}
% The Captions List is helpful for presenting the captions in
% various languages. Inspired from MonTeX!!!
%
%    \begin{macrocode}    
\newcommand{\CaptionsList}[1]{%
   \bgroup
   \cxset{locale~#1}
   %\ttfamily
   \panunicode%
	\begin{longtable}[]{lll}
	\caption{Captions~in~#1\label{#1captions}}\\
	\toprule
   Command               & English	       & #1 \\
	 \midrule
	 \cs{prefacename}	     & Preface	       & \prefacename\\
	 \cs{refname}		       & References	     & \refname\\
	 \cs{abstractname}	   & Abstract    	   & \abstractname\\
	 \cs{bibname}		       & Bibliography	   & \bibname\\
	 \cs{chaptername}	     & Chapter	       & \chaptername\\
	 \cs{appendixname}	   & Appendix	       & \appendixname\\
	 \cs{contentsname}	   & Contents	       & \contentsname\\
	 \cs{listfigurename}   & List~of~Figures & \listfigurename\\
	 \cs{listtablename}	   & List~of~Tables  & \listtablename\\
	 \cs{indexname}	       & Index           & \indexname\\
	 \cs{figurename}	     & Figure	         & \figurename\\
	 \cs{tablename}	       & Table		       & \tablename\\
	 \cs{partname}	       & Part		         & \partname\\
	 \cs{enclname}	       & encl		         & \enclname\\
	 \cs{ccname}		       & cc		           & \ccname\\
	 \cs{headtoname}	     & To		           & \headtoname\\
	 \cs{pagename}	       & Page		         & \pagename\\
	 \cs{seename}		       & see		         & \seename\\
   \cs{alsoname}	       & see~also	       & \alsoname\\
	 \cs{glossaryname}     & Glossary        & \glossaryname\\
	 \cs{today}            &                 & \today \\
	 %\cs{dateitalian}     &                 & \dateitalian\\
	 \bottomrule
	 \end{longtable}
	%\captionsenglish
	\egroup
}

\clist_set:cn {en_clist} {, January, February, March, April, May, 
   June, July, August, September, October, November, December}

\ExplSyntaxOff
%    \end{macrocode}
% 
% \ExplSyntaxOn
% \def\englishmonth#1#2{\clist_item:cn {#1_clist} {#2}}
% \englishmonth{en}{\month}
% \ExplSyntaxOff
%\iffalse
%</package>
%\fi
%
%
% \printindex
% \Finale
\endinput



